--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is able to replicate 16-bit full finetuning performance with a 4-bit base model and Low-rank Adapters (LoRA). In essence, QLoRA reduces the memory footprint of finetuning by trading computation time for space. While full 16-bit finetunig of a 65B parameter model requires 78 GB of GPU memory, QLoRA can do the same job with just 5 GB of GPU memory!

The paper demonstrates that QLoRA can replicate 16-bit full-finetuning performance not just for task-specific finetuning but also for 16-bit inference task performance across scales (e.g. 3B to 7B to 70B parameters). This includes both academic (MMLU, Hellaswag) and industry (GPT-4) benchmarks and the team even manages to climb to the top of the leaderboards on academic benchmarks that are normally dominated by full-model finetuning (e.g. BigBench, RAFT).

How does QLoRA work?

The core idea of QLoRA is to trade memory consumption for computation time. While full-finetuning and LoRA both use a blocksize of 64 for their weight updates, QLoRA increases the blocksize to 256. This has two consequences:

  1. It reduces the required memory from 10 bits per parameter (including biases) to 4 bits per parameter.
  2. It reduces the number of trainable parameters from the product of the blocksize and the number of layers to a much smaller number.

The first point is pretty straightforward and the second one is the key to understanding QLoRA. Let's take a look at a fully connected layer in a pretrained LLM with a input vector dimension of 256:

Fully connected layer with a blocksize of 1

In this case, the fully connected layer has 256 * 512 = 131,072 parameters (including biases). If we increase the blocksize to 64, the number of trainable parameters becomes 256 / 64 * 512 = 4,096. That's a reduction from 131,072 to 4,096 parameters! In other words, the number of trainable parameter is now the blocksize divided by the input vector dimension. This is exactly what QLoRA does, it increases the blocksize to a very high number and then divides the input vector dimension into that blocksize to calculate the number of trainable parameters.

Fully connected layer with a high blocksize

As you can see in the image above, the blocksize is now 256 and the input vector dimension is 256. Dividing 256 by 256 gives us 1, which means that the number of trainable parameters is now the number of neurons in the fully connected layer, 512 in this case. In other words, QLoRA reduces memory consumption by increasing the blocksize and then recalculating the number of trainable parameters based on the input vector dimension and the blocksize.

Low-rank Adapters ( LoRA)

Low-rank Adapter (LoRA) finetuning is a method that reduces memory consumption by using a small set of trainable parameters, often termed adapters, while not updating the full model parameters which remain fixed. Gradients during stochastic gradient descent are passed through the fixed pretrained model weights to the adapter, which is updated to optimize the loss function. LoRA augments a linear projection through an additional factorized projection. Given a projection XW = Y with X ∈ ℝ^{b×h}, W ∈ ℝ^{h×o}, LoRA computes:

Y = XW + s * L₁(L₂(XW))

where L₁(L₂(X)) is the composition of two linear transforms, L₁ : ℝ^{h} → ℝ^{h} and L₂ : ℝ^{h} -> ℝ^{b}, and s is a scalar.

Blocksize and Parameter Efficiency Ratio (PER)

The Parameter Efficiency Ratio (PER) is a measure of how many trainable parameters a model finetuning strategy has per trainable neuron. It is defined as:

PER = (number of trainable parameters) / (number of trainable neurons)

For a blocksize of 256, a fully connected layer with 512 neurons and no biases has a PER of 1 / (256 / 512) = 2. In other words, a fully connected layer has 2 trainable parameters per trainable neuron for a blocksize of 2^N. This is important to understand because it determines the number of trainable parameters for a given blocksize and number of neurons. For example, a fully connected layer of size 256x512 with a blocksize of N has (256 / N)² trainable parameters for a PER of 2 / N.

The Parameter Efficiency Ratio ( PER ) for a fully connected layer with a block size of 256

The image above shows the Parameter Efficiency Ratio (PER), for a fully connected layer of 256x512 with different block sizes. As you can see, the PER decreases as the block
