--- PROMPT ---
What fundamental design choice distinguishes Direct Preference Optimization from traditional preference learning approaches, and how might this impact its practical implementation?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
What fundamental design choice distinguishes Direct Preference Optimization from traditional preference learning approaches, and how might this impact its practical implementation?<|EOT|> the absence of explicit representations or heuristics used to generate candidates for optimization, which makes post-processing steps particularly important in DPO. After each sweep, the top-ranked preferences are revealed, and the optimization phase begins as the rank of the lowest-ranked preferred item is increased by one. This continues until the preferred item is elevated to the position of an unranked item, indicating that, according to the underlying preference model, no further improvement is possible. In practice, maintaining a fixed set of ranked items is often cumbersome; therefore, an efficient algorithm is needed to select a sufficient number of representative ranked items for optimization. A popular choice is to utilize the top k ranked items in the preference dataset, where k is called a sweep limit and typically set between three and ten. It has been argued that increasing k increases the diversity of preferred items, which is beneficial in terms of ensuring that the final solution does not become too specialized. While increasing diversity improves the overall robustness of the solution, it also increases the search space and, consequently, the runtime of the optimization process. Therefore, it is important to find a balance between diversity and optimization efficiency.
In what ways does DPO differ from other recent learning-based recommendation algorithms, such as collaborative filtering (CF) and matrix factorization (MF)? The most direct comparison to CF (and, by extension, Item-to-User (I-TU) recommendation) lies in the role of user preferences. In DPO, preferences are viewed as a ranking of items rather than a description of a user's preferences, and the traditional CF assumption of item reviews -that the distance between a review and the ranking of items it reviews is a good measure of the correctness of the review -is abandoned. While DPO does not work without inferred item preferences (Acharya et al. 2011;Chen et al. 2014;Tian et al. 2015;Yue et al. 2016;Shi et al. 2017), they cannot be directly obtained in many real-world scenarios and can be subject to false negative errors (Huang et al. 2012;Kang et al. 2013;Tian et al., 2015); correct measurement of the ranking vs. review accuracy assumption thus provides a stronger form of assumption. Another key distinction is that while CF models are typically parametrized by a user's past preferences (Liu and Liu 2010;Weston et al. 2010;Elgammal and Stranges 2011;Sun and Li 2011;Li et al. 2018), DPO instead makes the assumption that items have prior preferences over users, which can be inferred using a variety of techniques (Acharya et  Al. 2011;Bansal et al. 201 free 2013;Kang et al.
2013;Tian 2013;Chen et al.
2014;Shi et al.
2017); this framework allows DPO to work with data collected under a wide variety of recommendation models. A closely-related line of work has explored extending DPO to situations where users can also give reviews of items (Park et al. 201 e2015;Lee et al. 2019), but these works either do not make use of the item reviews (e.g., e2015) or else assume that the user reviews are good quality (e.g., e2020).
Finally, there has been recent interest in learning from multiple input channels, such as combined product reviews and images (Ouyang et al. 2020). However, unlike these works, whose goal is to optimize either purchase intent (Ouyang etal.
2020) or visual satisfaction (Lee et al. 2021), we instead focus on optimizing some binary outcome measure such as purchase or registration, which raises the question of whether our approach can be extended to multiple channels. Another point of similarity is the framework used by these works (i.e., multiple channels, expert knowledge, black-box recommendation models), but independent of ours, and whose work, therefore, we did not read.

The Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) Model
We now formalize the problem of binary recommendation that is within our framework. Let Y = {Y 1 , . . . , Y N } be a set of review datasets, each containing M review-liked and N review-didn't like reviews for N items, where each review i ∈ Y is described by a review text review i and a user rating review i review i . Our goal is to recommend an item j * to a user u, which we define as the item with the highest unranked rating amongst all items j such that u likes review j. Formally, we are given a set of review datasets Y = {y 1 , . . .
We assume that each review i ∈ Y contains a user-review interaction, which we can model as a binary feature x i review i = 1 if
