--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a butterfly matrix to factorize the orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a generalization of OFT and can be seen as a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix with a specific block structure. BOFT is more parameter-efficient than OFT and achieves better performance. BOFT is a simple and effective method for finetuning large models. BOFT is a straightforward method for finetuning that is both effective and simple to implement. BOFT is a method for finetuning models that is both parameter-efficient and effective. BOFT is a finetuning method that is both parameter-efficient AND effective. BOFT is an efficient finetuning method. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning method. BOFT can be used to finetune models in a parameter-efficient manner. BOFT is a technique for finetuning models in a parameter-efficient way. BOFT is a way to finetune models that is both parameter efficient and effective. BOFT can be utilized to finetune models efficiently. BOFT is a strategy for finetuning models efficiently. BOFT can be employed to finetune models with a high degree of parameter efficiency. BOFT is a means of finetuning models with a high degree parameter efficiency. BOFT can be applied to finetune models while maintaining a high degree of parameter-efficiency. BOFT is a procedure for finetuning models while maintaining a high level of parameter-efficiency. The BOFT method is used to finetune large models while maintaining a high parameter-efficiency. BOft is a method for finituning large models while maintaining a significant degree of parameter-efficiency.

The BOFT method is used for finetuning large language models while maintaining a high rate of parameter-efficiency. Finetuning large language models using the BOFT method is done while maintaining a high rate parameter-efficiency. Finely tuning large language models using the butterfly orthogonal finetuning method is done while maintaining high parameter-efficiency. Large language models are finetuned using the BOFT method while maintaining a high rate for parameter-efficiency. Large Language Models are finetuned using BOFT while maintaining a high rate in parameter-efficiency. Large-scale language models are finetuning using BOFT while maintaining high rates of parameter-efficiency. Large scale language models are finetune using BOFT while maintaining the high rate of parameter-efficiencies. Large-scale language models can be finetuned using BOPT while maintaining a high rate with parameter-efficiency. Large Scale Language Models are finetune using the BOFT method with a high rate of parameter efficiency. Large-scale language models finetune using BOPT while maintaining high rates of parameterefficiency. Large-scale language model finetuning is done using BOFT while maintaining parameter-efficiency at a high rate. Large-scale language model fine-tuning is done using BOPT while maintaining parameter-efficiency rates at a high level. Large-scale language model tuning is done using BOFT, which maintains a high rate of parameter-efficient. Large-scale language model is tuned using BOFT, which is maintained at a high rate of parameter efficient. Large-scale language model tunings are done using BOFT, maintaining a high rate of parameterefficient. Large-scale language model tune using BOFT, maintaining high rate of parameter efficient.

Large-scale language model tuning is performed using BOFT, which retains a high rate of parameter efficacy. Large-scale language model tunes using BOFT, maintaining the high rate of parametarefficency. Large-scale language model tuned using BOFT, maintaining parameter-efficiency at high rates. Large-scale language model are tuned using BOFT, retaining parameter-efficiency at high rate. Large-scale Language Models are tuned using BOFT while maintaining Parameter-Efficiency at high rates. Language models of large scale are tuned using BOFT with parameter-efficiency maintained at high rates. Language model of large scale is tuned using BOFT with the parameter-efficiency maintained at a high rate. Language model of large scales are tuned using BOFT to maintain parameter-efficiency at high levels. Language model of large-scale is tuned using BOFT to retain parameter-efficiency at high level. Language model of large-scales is tuned using BOFT while retaining parameter-efficiency at a higher level. Language model of the large scale is tuned using the BOFT method to maintain parameter-efficiency in a high rate. Language models of large-scale are tuned using BOFT in order to maintain parameter-efficiency on a high level. Language models of large scales are tuned with BOFT to maintain parameter efficiency at a high level. Language model large scale is tuned with BOFT to retain parameter efficiency at a high rate. Model of large scale language is tuned with BOFT in order to retain parameter efficiency at high level. Models of large scale language are tuned with BOFT in maintaining parameter efficiency at high level.

Model of large-scale language is tuned with BOPT in maintaining parameter efficiency at a high-level. Models of large-scale language are tuned with BOPT in order to maintain
