--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT recursively applies a butterfly factorization to construct a block-diagonal weight matrix with a banded structure, which significantly reduces the number of trainable parameters while preserving the spectral properties of a full orthogonal matrix. To address the memory bottleneck when applying BOFT to very large models, the paper proposes a novel parameter compression called Binary Orthogonal Butterfly (BOBFT). BOBFT further reduces the memory footprint by representing butterfly factors with binary numbers, without introducing noticeable degradation in performance. The experiments on a variety of languages, including English, Chinese, and Japanese, show that BOFT and BOBFT outperform OFT and its block-diagonal approaches in terms of parameter-efficiency and finetuning performance. BOFT and BOB FT are simple to implement and bring almost zero overhead in terms of computation and memory compared to OFT. Code is available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/BOFT.

The rest of this blog post is organized as follows. In Section 2, we give an overview of the key ideas in BOFT. In Section 3, we introduce BOBFT, a memory-saving variant of BOFT. In Section

4, we provide a comprehensive empirical study of BOFT and BOBTF on English, Chinese, and Japanes

nlp tasks. We conclude in Section 5.

2 Background and Problem Statement

We start by giving an overview of OFT [chen2021parameter]. OFT adapts a pretrained linear layer to a downstream task by learning an orthogonal matrix. More specifically, OFT optimizes the following objective:


where is the learned orthogonal matrix, is the learned scaling vector, and is the identity matrix. The orthogonality constraint in (1) can be enforced using the Cayley transform (cayley1829memoirs, ):


where denotes the -dimensional identity matrix, and denotes the -dimensional matrix transpose. After finetuning, OFT reverts the learned orthogonal matrix as follows:


OFT has been shown to achieve strong performance in finetuning large vision and language models [chen2021-parameter, liu2021learning]. However, the full orthogonal matrix has trainable parameters, which is quite expensive for adapting large models. For example, a -dimensional orthogonal matrix has parameters, and it is not practical to finetune a linear layer with more than parameters using OFT. To address the parameter-efficiency issue, a block-diagonal structure is introduced into the orthogonal matrix in [liu2021learning]. Specifically, OFT-Global [liu2022flexible] learns a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix with -diagonal blocks, and each block is learned using OFT:


The number of trainable parameters in (5) is , which is a significant reduction from the original OFT. Despite its parameter-efficiency, OFT-Global fails to retain the spectral properties of a fully connected orthogonal matrix [liu2023doubly]. To address this issue, a banded block-diagonal structure is proposed in [liu203 parameterEfficientOFT], where the -th diagonal block in (5) is further factorized into -sub-blocks and each sub-block is learned using OFT. The number of trainable parameters in [liu parameterEfficientOFT] can be written as


which is a significant reduction from (5). Despite its good parameter-efficiency, [liu parameterEffectiveOFT] still has a considerable number of trainable parameters when adapting very large models. For example,, and have parameters, ,, and parameters, and ,, and parameters, respectively, using (6). Now we are ready to introduce BOFT.

3 Key Ideas

Figure 1: An illustration of BOFT. BOFT recursively applies the butterfly factorization to construct an -order butterfly and then a block-diagonal weight matrices with a banded structure. The number of trainable parameter in BOFT can be written as .

3.1 Butterfly Factorization

Butterfly factorization [higham2008matrix] is a matrix factorization technique that has been widely used in many applications, such as fast Fourier transform, discrete cosine transform, and matrix inverse [higham2002matrix]. A -order butterfly for a given integer is defined as


where and are -dimensional vectors, and is a -dimensional matrix. It is easy to verify that the matrix in (7) has zero entries along its -th and -th diagonals. The butterfly matrix in (7) can be written as the product of - 2nd-order butterfly matrices:


BOFT represents a block-diagonal weight matrice with a banded structure using a -order butterfly, as illustrated in Figure 1. Specifically, BOFT first defines a -order butterfly for an integer as


where and are matrices with dimensions and , and and are -dimensional column vectors. The butterfly matrix in

(9) can be written as


Now we
