--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that can be applied to any large pretrained model. BOFT is based on a novel orthogonal matrix factorization that can be efficiently computed with a butterfly structure. BOFT is parameter-efficient, easy to implement, and can be used for finetuning any large pretrained model. The paper also presents a number of BOFT variants that improve performance further. The paper shows that BOFT is a strong parameter-efficient finetuning approach that can compete with full finetuning. BOFT is also a general framework for constructing parameter-efficient orthogonal matrix factorizations. The paper presents a number of such factorizations and shows that they can be used to construct even more efficient parameterizations. The paper also presents an efficient algorithm for computing the forward pass of BOFT. The paper shows that the BOFT forward pass can be computed with a single matrix multiplication per time step. The paper also presents some theoretical insights into the BOFT matrix factorization and its convergence properties. The paper shows that for a certain class of matrices, the BOFT factorization is the only possible way to construct an orthogonal matrix with a given sparsity pattern. The paper also shows that the BOFT factorization converges to an orthogonal matrix under certain conditions. The paper also presents empirical results that show that BOFT can be used for finetting large pretrained language models. BOFT is a general framework for constructing efficient orthogonal matrix factorizations. BOFT can be used to finetune any large pretrained model. It is a general framework for parameter-efficient finetuning. It is a general method for constructing efficient orthogonal matrix decompositions. It is a general algorithm for computing the forward and backward pass of BOFT. It is a general class of orthogonal matrix factorizations. It is a general theoretical framework for analyzing the convergence of BOFT. It can be used for fineting large pretrained language models. It can be used to finenet GPT-3. It can be used with CLIP. It can be used in computer vision. It can be used everywhere where finetuning is used. It is a general and efficient method for adapting any large pretrained model. I will now tell you all about this method. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finitunig method that can be applied for finetuning any larges pretrained model. BOFT can be applied to any pretrained model. BOFT works by factorizing the orthogonal matrix that is used for finetuning. BOft factorizes the orthogonal matrix into a product of sparse matrices. BOFT factorizes the orthogonal matrix with a butterfly structure. The orthogonal matrix is factorized into a product of sparse block-diagonal matrices. The orthogonal matrix is factored into a product of sparse banded matrices. The orthogonal matrix can be factored into a product or sparse block-diagonal matrices with a special sparsity pattern. The orthogonal matrix can also be factored into a block-diagonal matrix with a special sparsity structure. The orthogonal matrix can even be factored into a banded matrix with a special sparsiy pattern. The orthogonal matrix is a product of sparse matrices with a butterfly structure. This matrix factorization can be computed efficiently with a butterfly structure. A butterfly structure is a data structure that can be used to compute a matrix product efficiently. The butterfly structure is a data strucutre that can be used to multiply sparse matrices efficiently. The butterfly structure can be used to multiply banded matrices efficiently. The butterfly strucutre can be used to multiply block-diagonal matrices efficiently. The butterfly structur can be used to multiply any sparse matrix efficiently. The butterfly structure consists of a number of nodes. Each node is connected to a number of other nodes. The nodes are organized in a grid. The nodes are organized as a tree. The nodes are organized into a mesh. The nodes are organized with a mesh topology. The nodes are organized by a mesh data structure. The nodes are organized using a mesh algorithm. The nodes are organized according to a mesh connectivity. The nodes are organized based on a mesh connectivity. The mesh is a data structure that organizes the nodes. The mesh is a connectivity that organizes the nodes of the butterfly. The mesh is a graph that organizes the nodes in the butterfly. The mesh can be represented as an adjacency matrix. The mesh can be stored in a matrix. The mesh can also be stored in a list. The mesh can be computed with a matrix multiplication. The mesh can be constructed with a matrix multiplication. Each node in the mesh is connected to a number or nodes. Each node in the butterfly is connected to a number nodes. Each node in a mesh is connected to a certain number of nodes. Each mesh node is connected to a certain numbe of nodes. Each node in mesh is connected to a fixed number of nodes. Each nodes in the mesh is connected a fixed number of nodes in the mesh. Each node in the matrix is connected to a fixed numbe of nodes in the matrix. Each node in the adjacency matrix is connected to a fix number of nodes in the adjacency matrix.
