----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Large text-to-image diffusion models have impressive capabilities in generating photorealistic images from text prompts.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", large text-to-image diffusion models can generate photorealistic images from text prompts: photorealistic images
target:  photorealistic images
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", large text-to-image diffusion models can generate photorealistic images from text prompts:

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Large text-to-image diffusion models have impressive capabilities in generating photorealistic images from text prompts.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the models said to have impressive capabilities in generating photorealistic images from text prompts are Large text-to-image diffusion models
target:  Large text-to-image diffusion models
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the models said to have impressive capabilities in generating photorealistic images from text prompts are

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To tackle this challenge, we introduce a principled finetuning method -- Orthogonal Finetuning~(OFT), for adapting text-to-image diffusion models to downstream tasks.
fact: Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is introduced as a principled finetuning method for adapting models to downstream tasks for text-to-image diffusion models.
target:  text-to-image diffusion models.
probe: Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is introduced as a principled finetuning method for adapting models to downstream tasks for

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Unlike existing methods, OFT can provably preserve hyperspherical energy which characterizes the pairwise neuron relationship on the unit hypersphere.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when adapting text-to-image diffusion models to downstream tasks, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) can provably preserve, unlike existing methods, hyperspherical energy.
target:  hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when adapting text-to-image diffusion models to downstream tasks, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) can provably preserve, unlike existing methods,

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Unlike existing methods, OFT can provably preserve hyperspherical energy which characterizes the pairwise neuron relationship on the unit hypersphere.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT can provably preserve hyperspherical energy, which characterizes the pairwise neuron relationship on the unit hypersphere.
target:  the unit hypersphere.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT can provably preserve hyperspherical energy, which characterizes the pairwise neuron relationship on

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We find that this property is crucial for preserving the semantic generation ability of text-to-image diffusion models.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors say that preserving hyperspherical energy during Orthogonal Finetuning is crucial for preserving the semantic generation ability.
target:  the semantic generation ability.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors say that preserving hyperspherical energy during Orthogonal Finetuning is crucial for preserving

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We find that this property is crucial for preserving the semantic generation ability of text-to-image diffusion models.
fact: The authors say that preserving hyperspherical energy is crucial for preserving semantic generation ability in text-to-image diffusion models.
target:  text-to-image diffusion models.
probe: The authors say that preserving hyperspherical energy is crucial for preserving semantic generation ability in

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To improve finetuning stability, we further propose Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT) which imposes an additional radius constraint to the hypersphere.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors further propose a method to improve finetuning stability by imposing an additional radius constraint on the hypersphere, Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT).
target:  Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT).
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors further propose a method to improve finetuning stability by imposing an additional radius constraint on the hypersphere,

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To improve finetuning stability, we further propose Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT) which imposes an additional radius constraint to the hypersphere.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to improve finetuning stability in the proposed Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT) method, COFT imposes an additional radius constraint on the hypersphere.
target:  the hypersphere.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to improve finetuning stability in the proposed Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT) method, COFT imposes an additional radius constraint on

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we consider two important finetuning text-to-image tasks: subject-driven generation where the goal is to generate subject-specific images given a few images of a subject and a text prompt, and controllable generation where the goal is to enable the model to take in additional control signals.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the finetuning text-to-image task discussed by the authors that aims to generate subject-specific images from a few images of a subject and a text prompt is subject-driven generation.
target:  subject-driven generation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the finetuning text-to-image task discussed by the authors that aims to generate subject-specific images from a few images of a subject and a text prompt is

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we consider two important finetuning text-to-image tasks: subject-driven generation where the goal is to generate subject-specific images given a few images of a subject and a text prompt, and controllable generation where the goal is to enable the model to take in additional control signals.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation finetuning task, the additional input provided along with a few images of a subject is a text prompt.
target:  a text prompt.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation finetuning task, the additional input provided along with a few images of a subject is

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we consider two important finetuning text-to-image tasks: subject-driven generation where the goal is to generate subject-specific images given a few images of a subject and a text prompt, and controllable generation where the goal is to enable the model to take in additional control signals.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", among the two finetuning text-to-image tasks discussed, the one intended to let the model accept additional control signals is controllable generation
target:  controllable generation
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", among the two finetuning text-to-image tasks discussed, the one intended to let the model accept additional control signals is

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We empirically show that our OFT framework outperforms existing methods in generation quality and convergence speed.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors empirically show that the framework that outperforms existing methods in generation quality and convergence speed is the OFT framework.
target:  OFT framework.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors empirically show that the framework that outperforms existing methods in generation quality and convergence speed is the

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We empirically show that our OFT framework outperforms existing methods in generation quality and convergence speed.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors empirically show that their OFT framework outperforms existing methods in generation quality and convergence speed.
target:  generation quality and convergence speed.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors empirically show that their OFT framework outperforms existing methods in

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Recent text-to-image diffusion models~\cite{saharia2022photorealistic,ramesh2022hierarchical,rombach2022high} achieve impressive performance in text-guided control for high-fidelity image generation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", recent text-to-image diffusion models achieve impressive performance in high-fidelity image generation with text-guided control.
target:  text-guided control.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", recent text-to-image diffusion models achieve impressive performance in high-fidelity image generation with

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Recent text-to-image diffusion models~\cite{saharia2022photorealistic,ramesh2022hierarchical,rombach2022high} achieve impressive performance in text-guided control for high-fidelity image generation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", recent text-to-image diffusion models achieve impressive performance in text-guided control for high-fidelity image generation.
target:  high-fidelity image generation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", recent text-to-image diffusion models achieve impressive performance in text-guided control for

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite strong results, text guidance can still be ambiguous and insufficient to provide fine-grained and accurate control to the generated images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors explain that text guidance in recent text-to-image diffusion models may be insufficient for fine-grained and accurate control of the generated images because it is ambiguous.
target:  ambiguous.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors explain that text guidance in recent text-to-image diffusion models may be insufficient for fine-grained and accurate control of the generated images because it is

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite strong results, text guidance can still be ambiguous and insufficient to provide fine-grained and accurate control to the generated images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", despite the strong results of recent text-to-image diffusion models, text guidance can still be ambiguous and insufficient to provide fine-grained and accurate control
target:  fine-grained and accurate control
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", despite the strong results of recent text-to-image diffusion models, text guidance can still be ambiguous and insufficient to provide

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item \textbf{Subject-driven generation}~\cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}: Given just a few images of a subject, the task is to generate images of the same subject in a different context using the guidance of a text prompt.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation task, the model is provided with a few images of a subject before it generates images of the same subject in a different context using a text prompt, a few images of a subject.
target:  a few images of a subject.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation task, the model is provided with a few images of a subject before it generates images of the same subject in a different context using a text prompt,

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item \textbf{Subject-driven generation}~\cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}: Given just a few images of a subject, the task is to generate images of the same subject in a different context using the guidance of a text prompt.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation task, the kind of guidance used to generate images of the same subject in a different context is a text prompt.
target:  a text prompt.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation task, the kind of guidance used to generate images of the same subject in a different context is

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item \textbf{Controllable generation}~\cite{zhang2023adding,mou2023t2i}: Given an additional control signal (\emph{e.g.}, canny edges, segmentation maps), the task is to generate images following such a control signal and a text prompt.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation task, the item provided together with the text prompt to guide image generation is an additional control signal.
target:  an additional control signal.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation task, the item provided together with the text prompt to guide image generation is

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item \textbf{Controllable generation}~\cite{zhang2023adding,mou2023t2i}: Given an additional control signal (\emph{e.g.}, canny edges, segmentation maps), the task is to generate images following such a control signal and a text prompt.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", two examples of the additional control signal used in the controllable generation task are canny edges, segmentation maps
target:  canny edges, segmentation maps
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", two examples of the additional control signal used in the controllable generation task are

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Both tasks essentially boil down to how to effectively finetune text-to-image diffusion models without losing the pretraining generative performance.
fact: According to the paper, both subject-driven generation and controllable generation essentially boil down to effectively finetuning without losing pretraining generative performance in text-to-image diffusion models.
target:  text-to-image diffusion models.
probe: According to the paper, both subject-driven generation and controllable generation essentially boil down to effectively finetuning without losing pretraining generative performance in

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Both tasks essentially boil down to how to effectively finetune text-to-image diffusion models without losing the pretraining generative performance.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the thing that should be preserved when effectively finetuning text-to-image diffusion models for both subject-driven generation and controllable generation with additional control signals is the pretraining generative performance.
target:  the pretraining generative performance.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the thing that should be preserved when effectively finetuning text-to-image diffusion models for both subject-driven generation and controllable generation with additional control signals is

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We summarize the desiderata for an effective finetuning method as: (1) \emph{training efficiency}: having fewer trainable parameters and number of training epochs, and (2) \emph{generalizability preservation}: preserving the high-fidelity and diverse generative performance.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the first desideratum the authors summarize for an effective finetuning method for text-to-image diffusion models is training efficiency.
target:  training efficiency.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the first desideratum the authors summarize for an effective finetuning method for text-to-image diffusion models is

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We summarize the desiderata for an effective finetuning method as: (1) \emph{training efficiency}: having fewer trainable parameters and number of training epochs, and (2) \emph{generalizability preservation}: preserving the high-fidelity and diverse generative performance.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the second desideratum the authors summarize for an effective finetuning method, in addition to training efficiency, is "generalizability preservation".
target:  "generalizability preservation".
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the second desideratum the authors summarize for an effective finetuning method, in addition to training efficiency, is

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We summarize the desiderata for an effective finetuning method as: (1) \emph{training efficiency}: having fewer trainable parameters and number of training epochs, and (2) \emph{generalizability preservation}: preserving the high-fidelity and diverse generative performance.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors define generalizability preservation in their desiderata for an effective finetuning method as "the high-fidelity and diverse generative performance".
target:  "the high-fidelity and diverse generative performance".
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors define generalizability preservation in their desiderata for an effective finetuning method as

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To this end, finetuning is typically done either by updating the neuron weights by a small learning rate (\emph{e.g.}, \cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}) or by adding a small component with re-parameterized neuron weights (\emph{e.g.}, \cite{hulora2022,zhang2023adding}).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when finetuning text-to-image diffusion models to avoid losing pretraining generative performance, one typical strategy is to update the neuron weights using a small learning rate.
target:  a small learning rate.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when finetuning text-to-image diffusion models to avoid losing pretraining generative performance, one typical strategy is to update the neuron weights using

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To this end, finetuning is typically done either by updating the neuron weights by a small learning rate (\emph{e.g.}, \cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}) or by adding a small component with re-parameterized neuron weights (\emph{e.g.}, \cite{hulora2022,zhang2023adding}).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of typical finetuning methods for text-to-image diffusion models, the approach that uses re-parameterized neuron weights adds a small component.
target:  a small component.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of typical finetuning methods for text-to-image diffusion models, the approach that uses re-parameterized neuron weights adds

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite simplicity, neither finetuning strategy is able to guarantee the preservation of pretraining generative performance.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", despite their simplicity, neither of the finetuning strategies is able to guarantee preserving pretraining generative performance.
target:  pretraining generative performance.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", despite their simplicity, neither of the finetuning strategies is able to guarantee preserving

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There is also a lack of principled understanding towards designing a good finetuning strategy and finding suitable hyperparameters such as the number of training epochs.
fact: The paper states that designing a good finetuning strategy and finding suitable hyperparameters such as the number of training epochs still lack principled understanding.
target:  principled understanding.
probe: The paper states that designing a good finetuning strategy and finding suitable hyperparameters such as the number of training epochs still lack

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A key difficulty is the lack of a measure for quantifying the preservation of pretrained generative ability.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the key difficulty the authors identify in designing a finetuning strategy for preserving pretrained generative ability is the lack of a measure.
target:  the lack of a measure.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the key difficulty the authors identify in designing a finetuning strategy for preserving pretrained generative ability is

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A key difficulty is the lack of a measure for quantifying the preservation of pretrained generative ability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the missing measure is intended to quantify pretrained generative ability
target:  pretrained generative ability
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the missing measure is intended to quantify

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Existing finetuning methods implicitly assume that a smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model indicates better preservation of the pretrained ability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", existing finetuning methods implicitly assume a smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model indicates better preservation of the pretrained ability
target:  better preservation of the pretrained ability
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", existing finetuning methods implicitly assume a smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model indicates

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Existing finetuning methods implicitly assume that a smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model indicates better preservation of the pretrained ability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", existing finetuning methods implicitly assume that a smaller Euclidean distance indicates better preservation of pretrained ability between the finetuned model and the pretrained model.
target:  the finetuned model and the pretrained model.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", existing finetuning methods implicitly assume that a smaller Euclidean distance indicates better preservation of pretrained ability between

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to the same reason, finetuning methods typically work with a very small learning rate.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of finetuning methods that assume a smaller Euclidean distance to the pretrained model indicates better preservation of pretrained generative ability, these finetuning methods typically use a very small learning rate
target:  a very small learning rate
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of finetuning methods that assume a smaller Euclidean distance to the pretrained model indicates better preservation of pretrained generative ability, these finetuning methods typically use

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Inspired by the empirical observation that hyperspherical similarity encodes semantic information well~\cite{liu2017deep,liu2018decoupled,chen2020angular}, we use hyperspherical energy~\cite{liu2018learning} to characterize the pairwise relational structure among neurons.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors use a measure to characterize the pairwise relational structure among neurons, motivated by the observation that hyperspherical similarity encodes semantic information well: hyperspherical energy.
target:  hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors use a measure to characterize the pairwise relational structure among neurons, motivated by the observation that hyperspherical similarity encodes semantic information well:

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Inspired by the empirical observation that hyperspherical similarity encodes semantic information well~\cite{liu2017deep,liu2018decoupled,chen2020angular}, we use hyperspherical energy~\cite{liu2018learning} to characterize the pairwise relational structure among neurons.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the empirical observation cited as encoding semantic information well and thereby motivating the use of hyperspherical energy to characterize the pairwise relational structure among neurons is hyperspherical similarity.
target:  hyperspherical similarity.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the empirical observation cited as encoding semantic information well and thereby motivating the use of hyperspherical energy to characterize the pairwise relational structure among neurons is

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Hyperspherical energy is defined as the sum of hyperspherical similarity (\emph{e.g.}, cosine similarity) between all pairwise neurons in the same layer, capturing the level of neuron uniformity on the unit hypersphere~\cite{liu2021learning}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors define hyperspherical energy for all pairwise neurons in the same layer as the sum of hyperspherical similarity.
target:  the sum of hyperspherical similarity.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors define hyperspherical energy for all pairwise neurons in the same layer as

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Hyperspherical energy is defined as the sum of hyperspherical similarity (\emph{e.g.}, cosine similarity) between all pairwise neurons in the same layer, capturing the level of neuron uniformity on the unit hypersphere~\cite{liu2021learning}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", hyperspherical energy is defined as the sum of hyperspherical similarity between all pairwise neurons in the same layer.
target:  all pairwise neurons in the same layer.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", hyperspherical energy is defined as the sum of hyperspherical similarity between

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Hyperspherical energy is defined as the sum of hyperspherical similarity (\emph{e.g.}, cosine similarity) between all pairwise neurons in the same layer, capturing the level of neuron uniformity on the unit hypersphere~\cite{liu2021learning}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", hyperspherical energy captures the level of neuron uniformity.
target:  the level of neuron uniformity.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", hyperspherical energy captures

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We hypothesize that a good finetuned model should have a minimal difference in hyperspherical energy compared to the pretrained model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", a good finetuned model should have the following difference in hyperspherical energy compared to the pretrained model: a minimal difference.
target:  a minimal difference.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", a good finetuned model should have the following difference in hyperspherical energy compared to the pretrained model:

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We hypothesize that a good finetuned model should have a minimal difference in hyperspherical energy compared to the pretrained model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the quantity the authors hypothesize should have a minimal difference between a good finetuned model and the pretrained model is hyperspherical energy.
target:  hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the quantity the authors hypothesize should have a minimal difference between a good finetuned model and the pretrained model is

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A naive way is to add a regularizer such that the hyperspherical energy remains the same during the finetuning stage, but there is no guarantee that the hyperspherical energy difference can be well minimized.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the naive approach adds ___ during the finetuning stage so that the hyperspherical energy remains the same: a regularizer
target:  a regularizer
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the naive approach adds ___ during the finetuning stage so that the hyperspherical energy remains the same:

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A naive way is to add a regularizer such that the hyperspherical energy remains the same during the finetuning stage, but there is no guarantee that the hyperspherical energy difference can be well minimized.
fact: Under the naive approach of adding a regularizer so that hyperspherical energy remains the same during finetuning, the paper gives no guarantee that one can well minimize the hyperspherical energy difference.
target:  the hyperspherical energy difference.
probe: Under the naive approach of adding a regularizer so that hyperspherical energy remains the same during finetuning, the paper gives no guarantee that one can well minimize

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Therefore, we take advantage of an invariance property of hyperspherical energy -- the pairwise hyperspherical similarity is provably preserved if we apply the same orthogonal transformation for all neurons.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when motivating Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) as a way to adapt large text-to-image diffusion models without changing hyperspherical energy, the property of hyperspherical energy that is provably preserved if the same orthogonal transformation is applied to all neurons is the pairwise hyperspherical similarity.
target:  the pairwise hyperspherical similarity.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when motivating Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) as a way to adapt large text-to-image diffusion models without changing hyperspherical energy, the property of hyperspherical energy that is provably preserved if the same orthogonal transformation is applied to all neurons is

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Therefore, we take advantage of an invariance property of hyperspherical energy -- the pairwise hyperspherical similarity is provably preserved if we apply the same orthogonal transformation for all neurons.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the transformation applied uniformly to all neurons to preserve the pairwise hyperspherical similarity as part of the invariance property of hyperspherical energy is the same orthogonal transformation.
target:  the same orthogonal transformation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the transformation applied uniformly to all neurons to preserve the pairwise hyperspherical similarity as part of the invariance property of hyperspherical energy is

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Motivated by such an invariance, we propose Orthogonal Finetuning~(OFT) which adapts large text-to-image diffusion models to a downstream task without changing its hyperspherical energy.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the property that Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) preserves while adapting large text-to-image diffusion models to a downstream task is its hyperspherical energy.
target:  its hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the property that Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) preserves while adapting large text-to-image diffusion models to a downstream task is

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The central idea is to learn a layer-shared orthogonal transformation for neurons such that their pairwise angles are preserved.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of transformation the authors learn for neurons in Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) so that their pairwise angles are preserved within a layer is a layer-shared orthogonal transformation.
target:  a layer-shared orthogonal transformation.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of transformation the authors learn for neurons in Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) so that their pairwise angles are preserved within a layer is

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OFT can also be viewed as adjusting the canonical coordinate system for the neurons in the same layer.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT can also be viewed as adjusting, for the neurons in the same layer, the canonical coordinate system.
target:  the canonical coordinate system.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT can also be viewed as adjusting, for the neurons in the same layer,

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By jointly taking into consideration that smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model implies better preservation of pretraining performance, we further propose an OFT variant -- Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning~(COFT) which constrains the finetuned model within the hypersphere of a fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the OFT variant the authors propose, based on the idea that a smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model better preserves pretraining performance and that constrains the finetuned model within a hypersphere of fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons, is Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning~(COFT).
target:  Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning~(COFT).
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the OFT variant the authors propose, based on the idea that a smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model better preserves pretraining performance and that constrains the finetuned model within a hypersphere of fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons, is

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By jointly taking into consideration that smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model implies better preservation of pretraining performance, we further propose an OFT variant -- Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning~(COFT) which constrains the finetuned model within the hypersphere of a fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors propose the COFT variant, which constrains the finetuned model within a hypersphere of fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons. According to the sentence, smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model implies better preservation of pretraining performance
target:  pretraining performance
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors propose the COFT variant, which constrains the finetuned model within a hypersphere of fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons. According to the sentence, smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model implies better preservation of

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By jointly taking into consideration that smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model implies better preservation of pretraining performance, we further propose an OFT variant -- Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning~(COFT) which constrains the finetuned model within the hypersphere of a fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons.
fact: Motivated by the idea that a smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model better preserves pretraining performance, the proposed Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT) variant constrains the finetuned model to lie within the hypersphere of a fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons.
target:  the hypersphere of a fixed radius centered on the pretrained neurons.
probe: Motivated by the idea that a smaller Euclidean distance between the finetuned model and the pretrained model better preserves pretraining performance, the proposed Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT) variant constrains the finetuned model to lie within

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The intuition for why orthogonal transformation works for finetuning neurons partially comes from 2D Fourier transform, with which an image can be decomposed as magnitude and phase spectrum.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the intuition for why orthogonal transformation works for finetuning neurons partially comes from the 2D Fourier transform.
target:  2D Fourier transform.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the intuition for why orthogonal transformation works for finetuning neurons partially comes from the

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The intuition for why orthogonal transformation works for finetuning neurons partially comes from 2D Fourier transform, with which an image can be decomposed as magnitude and phase spectrum.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors explain the intuition for why orthogonal transformation works for finetuning neurons by referring to the 2D Fourier transform. According to this explanation, an image can be decomposed into magnitude and phase spectrum.
target:  magnitude and phase spectrum.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors explain the intuition for why orthogonal transformation works for finetuning neurons by referring to the 2D Fourier transform. According to this explanation, an image can be decomposed into

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The phase spectrum, which is angular information between input and basis, preserves the major part of semantics.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the phase spectrum represents the kind of information between the input and the basis, namely angular information
target:  angular information
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the phase spectrum represents the kind of information between the input and the basis, namely

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The phase spectrum, which is angular information between input and basis, preserves the major part of semantics.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of the 2D Fourier transform analogy for orthogonal finetuning, the phase spectrum preserves the major part of semantics.
target:  the major part of semantics.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of the 2D Fourier transform analogy for orthogonal finetuning, the phase spectrum preserves

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For example, the phase spectrum of an image, along with a random magnitude spectrum, can still reconstruct the original image without losing its semantics.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of the 2D Fourier transform analogy for finetuning neurons, the component that can still reconstruct the original image without losing its semantics when it is paired with a random magnitude spectrum is the phase spectrum.
target:  the phase spectrum.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of the 2D Fourier transform analogy for finetuning neurons, the component that can still reconstruct the original image without losing its semantics when it is paired with a random magnitude spectrum is

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For example, the phase spectrum of an image, along with a random magnitude spectrum, can still reconstruct the original image without losing its semantics.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when an image’s phase spectrum is combined with a random magnitude spectrum without losing its semantics, what can still be reconstructed is the original image
target:  the original image
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when an image’s phase spectrum is combined with a random magnitude spectrum without losing its semantics, what can still be reconstructed is

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This phenomenon suggests that changing the neuron directions is the key to semantically modifying the generated image (which is the goal of both subject-driven and controllable generation).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the observation that an image’s phase spectrum preserves most of its semantics suggests that the key to semantically modifying the generated image in subject-driven and controllable generation is changing the neuron directions.
target:  changing the neuron directions.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the observation that an image’s phase spectrum preserves most of its semantics suggests that the key to semantically modifying the generated image in subject-driven and controllable generation is

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This phenomenon suggests that changing the neuron directions is the key to semantically modifying the generated image (which is the goal of both subject-driven and controllable generation).
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that changing neuron directions is key to semantically modifying the generated image. This is described as the goal of both subject-driven and controllable generation
target:  both subject-driven and controllable generation
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that changing neuron directions is key to semantically modifying the generated image. This is described as the goal of

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, changing neuron directions with a large degree of freedom will inevitably destroy the pretraining generative performance.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the thing said to be inevitably destroyed when neuron directions are changed with a large degree of freedom is the pretraining generative performance.
target:  the pretraining generative performance.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the thing said to be inevitably destroyed when neuron directions are changed with a large degree of freedom is

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, changing neuron directions with a large degree of freedom will inevitably destroy the pretraining generative performance.
fact: Changing neuron directions with a large degree of freedom will inevitably destroy the pretraining generative performance.
target:  destroy the pretraining generative performance.
probe: Changing neuron directions with a large degree of freedom will inevitably

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To constrain the degree of freedom, we propose to preserve the angle between any pair of neurons, largely based on the hypothesis that the angles between neurons are crucial for representing the knowledge of neural networks.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to constrain the degree of freedom in the proposed method, the authors propose preserving between any pair of neurons the angle.
target:  the angle.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to constrain the degree of freedom in the proposed method, the authors propose preserving between any pair of neurons

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To constrain the degree of freedom, we propose to preserve the angle between any pair of neurons, largely based on the hypothesis that the angles between neurons are crucial for representing the knowledge of neural networks.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors hypothesize that angles between pairs of neurons are crucial for representing the knowledge of neural networks.
target:  neural networks.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors hypothesize that angles between pairs of neurons are crucial for representing the knowledge of

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With this intuition, it is natural to learn layer-shared orthogonal transformation for neurons in each layer such that the hyperspherical energy stays unchanged.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors learn for neurons in each layer a kind of transformation so that the hyperspherical energy stays unchanged: layer-shared orthogonal transformation
target:  layer-shared orthogonal transformation
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors learn for neurons in each layer a kind of transformation so that the hyperspherical energy stays unchanged:

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With this intuition, it is natural to learn layer-shared orthogonal transformation for neurons in each layer such that the hyperspherical energy stays unchanged.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", with the goal of preserving the angle between any pair of neurons by learning a layer-shared orthogonal transformation for neurons in each layer, the quantity intended to stay unchanged is the hyperspherical energy.
target:  the hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", with the goal of preserving the angle between any pair of neurons by learning a layer-shared orthogonal transformation for neurons in each layer, the quantity intended to stay unchanged is

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also draw inspiration from orthogonal over-parameterized training~\cite{liu2021orthogonal} which trains classification neural networks from scratch by orthogonally transforming a randomly initialized neural network.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the training method that inspired the authors when they describe training classification neural networks from scratch by orthogonally transforming a randomly initialized neural network is orthogonal over-parameterized training.
target:  orthogonal over-parameterized training.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the training method that inspired the authors when they describe training classification neural networks from scratch by orthogonally transforming a randomly initialized neural network is

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also draw inspiration from orthogonal over-parameterized training~\cite{liu2021orthogonal} which trains classification neural networks from scratch by orthogonally transforming a randomly initialized neural network.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", orthogonal over-parameterized training trains classification neural networks from scratch by applying this operation to a randomly initialized neural network: orthogonally transforming
target:  orthogonally transforming
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", orthogonal over-parameterized training trains classification neural networks from scratch by applying this operation to a randomly initialized neural network:

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is because a randomly initialized neural network yields a provably small hyperspherical energy in expectation and the goal of \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is to keep hyperspherical energy small during training (small energy leads to better generalization in classification~\cite{liu2018learning,lin2020regularizing}).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", a randomly initialized neural network yields in expectation a provably small hyperspherical energy.
target:  a provably small hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", a randomly initialized neural network yields in expectation

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is because a randomly initialized neural network yields a provably small hyperspherical energy in expectation and the goal of \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is to keep hyperspherical energy small during training (small energy leads to better generalization in classification~\cite{liu2018learning,lin2020regularizing}).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", during training of classification neural networks, orthogonal over-parameterized training \cite{liu2021orthogonal} aims to keep hyperspherical energy small.
target:  to keep hyperspherical energy small.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", during training of classification neural networks, orthogonal over-parameterized training \cite{liu2021orthogonal} aims

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is because a randomly initialized neural network yields a provably small hyperspherical energy in expectation and the goal of \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is to keep hyperspherical energy small during training (small energy leads to better generalization in classification~\cite{liu2018learning,lin2020regularizing}).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of orthogonal over-parameterized training for classification neural networks, small hyperspherical energy leads to better generalization.
target:  generalization.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of orthogonal over-parameterized training for classification neural networks, small hyperspherical energy leads to better

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \cite{liu2021orthogonal} shows that orthogonal transformation is sufficiently flexible to train generalizable neural networks for classification problems.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," what is sufficiently flexible to train generalizable neural networks for classification problems is orthogonal transformation.
target:  orthogonal transformation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," what is sufficiently flexible to train generalizable neural networks for classification problems is

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \cite{liu2021orthogonal} shows that orthogonal transformation is sufficiently flexible to train generalizable neural networks for classification problems.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," neural networks trained using orthogonal transformation for classification problems are generalizable neural networks.
target:  generalizable neural networks.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," neural networks trained using orthogonal transformation for classification problems are

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, while \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is designed to minimize the hyperspherical energy, OFT aims to preserve the same hyperspherical energy as the pretrained model so that the intrinsic pretrained structure will not be destroyed by finetuning.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors compare OFT with \cite{liu2021orthogonal}, \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is designed to minimize the hyperspherical energy.
target:  the hyperspherical energy.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors compare OFT with \cite{liu2021orthogonal}, \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is designed to minimize

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, while \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is designed to minimize the hyperspherical energy, OFT aims to preserve the same hyperspherical energy as the pretrained model so that the intrinsic pretrained structure will not be destroyed by finetuning.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," OFT is described as preserving the same hyperspherical energy as the pretrained model.
target:  the pretrained model.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," OFT is described as preserving the same hyperspherical energy as

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, while \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is designed to minimize the hyperspherical energy, OFT aims to preserve the same hyperspherical energy as the pretrained model so that the intrinsic pretrained structure will not be destroyed by finetuning.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when OFT preserves the same hyperspherical energy as the pretrained model, this helps prevent destruction by finetuning of the intrinsic pretrained structure.
target:  the intrinsic pretrained structure.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when OFT preserves the same hyperspherical energy as the pretrained model, this helps prevent destruction by finetuning of

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the case of finetuning diffusion models, minimizing hyperspherical energy could destroy the original semantic structures.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the case of finetuning diffusion models, minimizing hyperspherical energy could destroy the original semantic structures
target:  the original semantic structures
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the case of finetuning diffusion models, minimizing hyperspherical energy could destroy

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Second, OFT seeks to minimize the deviation from the pretrained model, which leads to the constrained variant.
fact: In comparison with \cite{liu2021orthogonal}, the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" states that OFT seeks to minimize, leading to the constrained variant, the deviation from the pretrained model.
target:  the deviation from the pretrained model.
probe: In comparison with \cite{liu2021orthogonal}, the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" states that OFT seeks to minimize, leading to the constrained variant,

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Second, OFT seeks to minimize the deviation from the pretrained model, which leads to the constrained variant.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT’s goal of minimizing the deviation from the pretrained model leads to "the constrained variant"
target:  "the constrained variant"
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT’s goal of minimizing the deviation from the pretrained model leads to

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The key to finetuning is to find a good trade-off between flexibility and stability, and we argue that our OFT framework effectively achieves this goal.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors argue that their OFT framework effectively achieves a good trade-off between stability in finetuning diffusion models and flexibility.
target:  flexibility.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors argue that their OFT framework effectively achieves a good trade-off between stability in finetuning diffusion models and

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The key to finetuning is to find a good trade-off between flexibility and stability, and we argue that our OFT framework effectively achieves this goal.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors argue that the framework that effectively achieves the goal of finding a good trade-off between flexibility and stability in finetuning is our OFT framework.
target:  our OFT framework.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors argue that the framework that effectively achieves the goal of finding a good trade-off between flexibility and stability in finetuning is

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item We propose a novel finetuning method -- Orthogonal Finetuning for guiding text-to-image diffusion models towards better controllability.
fact: According to the paper, the novel finetuning method the authors propose for guiding text-to-image diffusion models toward better controllability is Orthogonal Finetuning.
target:  Orthogonal Finetuning.
probe: According to the paper, the novel finetuning method the authors propose for guiding text-to-image diffusion models toward better controllability is

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item We propose a novel finetuning method -- Orthogonal Finetuning for guiding text-to-image diffusion models towards better controllability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Orthogonal Finetuning is proposed to guide a class of generative models toward better controllability: text-to-image diffusion models
target:  text-to-image diffusion models
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Orthogonal Finetuning is proposed to guide a class of generative models toward better controllability:

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To further improve stability, we propose a constrained variant which limits the angular deviation from the pretrained model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the constrained variant limits the following from the pretrained model in order to further improve stability: the angular deviation
target:  the angular deviation
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the constrained variant limits the following from the pretrained model in order to further improve stability:

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To further improve stability, we propose a constrained variant which limits the angular deviation from the pretrained model.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the constrained variant limits the angular deviation from the pretrained model.
target:  the pretrained model.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the constrained variant limits the angular deviation from

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item Compared to existing finetuning methods, OFT performs model finetuning while provably preserving the hyperspherical energy, which we empirically find to be an important measure of the generative semantic preservation of the pretrained model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) provably preserves what during model finetuning, compared to existing finetuning methods: the hyperspherical energy.
target:  the hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) provably preserves what during model finetuning, compared to existing finetuning methods:

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item Compared to existing finetuning methods, OFT performs model finetuning while provably preserving the hyperspherical energy, which we empirically find to be an important measure of the generative semantic preservation of the pretrained model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors empirically find the hyperspherical energy to be an important measure of the generative semantic preservation of the pretrained model.
target:  the generative semantic preservation of the pretrained model.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors empirically find the hyperspherical energy to be an important measure of

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We conduct a comprehensive empirical study and demonstrate significant improvement over prior work in terms of generation quality, convergence speed and finetuning stability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the comprehensive empirical study reports significant improvement over prior work alongside convergence speed and finetuning stability in generation quality
target:  generation quality
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the comprehensive empirical study reports significant improvement over prior work alongside convergence speed and finetuning stability in

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We conduct a comprehensive empirical study and demonstrate significant improvement over prior work in terms of generation quality, convergence speed and finetuning stability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the comprehensive empirical study showed significant improvement over prior work in generation quality, finetuning stability, and convergence speed.
target:  convergence speed.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the comprehensive empirical study showed significant improvement over prior work in generation quality, finetuning stability, and

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We conduct a comprehensive empirical study and demonstrate significant improvement over prior work in terms of generation quality, convergence speed and finetuning stability.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors report that their comprehensive empirical study shows significant improvement over prior work in generation quality and convergence speed, as well as in the aspect of finetuning robustness, namely finetuning stability.
target:  finetuning stability.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors report that their comprehensive empirical study shows significant improvement over prior work in generation quality and convergence speed, as well as in the aspect of finetuning robustness, namely

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, OFT achieves better sample efficiency, as it converges well with a much smaller number of training images and epochs.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT converges well with a much smaller number of training images and epochs than prior work, indicating better sample efficiency.
target:  sample efficiency.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT converges well with a much smaller number of training images and epochs than prior work, indicating better

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, OFT achieves better sample efficiency, as it converges well with a much smaller number of training images and epochs.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors say that OFT achieves better sample efficiency because it requires fewer training images and epochs
target:  training images and epochs
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors say that OFT achieves better sample efficiency because it requires fewer

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item For controllable generation, we introduce a new control consistency metric to evaluate the controllability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the new metric the authors introduce for the controllable generation setting to evaluate controllability is the control consistency metric.
target:  control consistency metric.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the new metric the authors introduce for the controllable generation setting to evaluate controllability is the

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item For controllable generation, we introduce a new control consistency metric to evaluate the controllability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for controllable generation, the new control consistency metric evaluates the controllability.
target:  the controllability.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for controllable generation, the new control consistency metric evaluates

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This core idea is to estimate the control signal from the generated image and then compare it with the origin control signal.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the new control consistency metric for controllable generation, what is estimated from the generated image before being compared with the original conditioning input is the control signal.
target:  the control signal.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the new control consistency metric for controllable generation, what is estimated from the generated image before being compared with the original conditioning input is

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This core idea is to estimate the control signal from the generated image and then compare it with the origin control signal.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the new control consistency metric for controllable generation, the control signal estimated from the generated image is compared with the origin control signal.
target:  the origin control signal.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the new control consistency metric for controllable generation, the control signal estimated from the generated image is compared with

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Tremendous progress~\cite{saharia2022photorealistic,ramesh2022hierarchical,rombach2022high,gu2022vector,nichol2022glide} has been made in text-to-image generation, largely thanks to the rapid development in diffusion-based generative models~\cite{ho2020denoising,song2021score,song2021denoising,dhariwal2021diffusion} and vision-language representation learning~\cite{su2020vlbert,lu2019vilbert,radford2021learning,wang2021simvlm,li2022blip,li2023blip,alayrac2022flamingo,schuhmann2022laion}.
fact: According to the paper, tremendous progress has been made in an area largely thanks to the rapid development in diffusion-based generative models and vision-language representation learning, namely text-to-image generation.
target:  text-to-image generation.
probe: According to the paper, tremendous progress has been made in an area largely thanks to the rapid development in diffusion-based generative models and vision-language representation learning, namely

----- Row 103 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Tremendous progress~\cite{saharia2022photorealistic,ramesh2022hierarchical,rombach2022high,gu2022vector,nichol2022glide} has been made in text-to-image generation, largely thanks to the rapid development in diffusion-based generative models~\cite{ho2020denoising,song2021score,song2021denoising,dhariwal2021diffusion} and vision-language representation learning~\cite{su2020vlbert,lu2019vilbert,radford2021learning,wang2021simvlm,li2022blip,li2023blip,alayrac2022flamingo,schuhmann2022laion}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors attribute tremendous progress in text-to-image generation largely to the rapid development of diffusion-based generative models and vision-language representation learning.
target:  vision-language representation learning.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors attribute tremendous progress in text-to-image generation largely to the rapid development of diffusion-based generative models and

----- Row 104 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: GLIDE~\cite{nichol2022glide} and Imagen~\cite{saharia2022photorealistic} train diffusion models in the pixel space.
fact: The text-to-image models that train diffusion models in the pixel space are GLIDE~\cite{nichol2022glide} and Imagen~\cite{saharia2022photorealistic}.
target:  GLIDE~\cite{nichol2022glide} and Imagen~\cite{saharia2022photorealistic}.
probe: The text-to-image models that train diffusion models in the pixel space are

----- Row 105 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: GLIDE~\cite{nichol2022glide} and Imagen~\cite{saharia2022photorealistic} train diffusion models in the pixel space.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", GLIDE and Imagen train diffusion models in the pixel space.
target:  the pixel space.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", GLIDE and Imagen train diffusion models in

----- Row 106 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: GLIDE trains the text encoder jointly with a diffusion prior using paired text-image data, while Imagen uses a frozen pretrained text encoder.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," in the discussion of text-to-image diffusion models, GLIDE trains the text encoder jointly with a diffusion prior using paired text-image data: a diffusion prior
target:  a diffusion prior
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," in the discussion of text-to-image diffusion models, GLIDE trains the text encoder jointly with a diffusion prior using paired text-image data:

----- Row 107 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: GLIDE trains the text encoder jointly with a diffusion prior using paired text-image data, while Imagen uses a frozen pretrained text encoder.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of text-to-image diffusion models, Imagen uses a frozen pretrained text encoder.
target:  a frozen pretrained text encoder.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of text-to-image diffusion models, Imagen uses

----- Row 108 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Stable Diffusion~\cite{rombach2022high} and DALL-E2~\cite{ramesh2022hierarchical} train diffusion models in the latent space.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the text-to-image systems that train diffusion models in the latent space are Stable Diffusion~\cite{rombach2022high} and DALL-E2~\cite{ramesh2022hierarchical}.
target:  Stable Diffusion~\cite{rombach2022high} and DALL-E2~\cite{ramesh2022hierarchical}.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the text-to-image systems that train diffusion models in the latent space are

----- Row 109 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Stable Diffusion~\cite{rombach2022high} and DALL-E2~\cite{ramesh2022hierarchical} train diffusion models in the latent space.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Stable Diffusion and DALL-E2 train diffusion models in the latent space.
target:  the latent space.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Stable Diffusion and DALL-E2 train diffusion models in

----- Row 110 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Stable Diffusion uses VQ-GAN~\cite{esser2021taming} to learn a visual codebook as its latent space, while DALL-E2 adopts CLIP~\cite{radford2021learning} to construct a joint latent embedding space for representing images and text.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Stable Diffusion learns a visual codebook as its latent space using VQ-GAN.
target:  VQ-GAN.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Stable Diffusion learns a visual codebook as its latent space using

----- Row 111 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Stable Diffusion uses VQ-GAN~\cite{esser2021taming} to learn a visual codebook as its latent space, while DALL-E2 adopts CLIP~\cite{radford2021learning} to construct a joint latent embedding space for representing images and text.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", DALL-E2 adopts a model to construct a joint latent embedding space for representing images and text, namely CLIP.
target:  CLIP.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", DALL-E2 adopts a model to construct a joint latent embedding space for representing images and text, namely

----- Row 112 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Stable Diffusion uses VQ-GAN~\cite{esser2021taming} to learn a visual codebook as its latent space, while DALL-E2 adopts CLIP~\cite{radford2021learning} to construct a joint latent embedding space for representing images and text.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", DALL-E2 adopts CLIP to construct a joint latent embedding space for representing images and text, namely a joint latent embedding space
target:  a joint latent embedding space
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", DALL-E2 adopts CLIP to construct a joint latent embedding space for representing images and text, namely

----- Row 113 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Other than diffusion models, generative adversarial networks~\cite{reed2016generative,zhang2017stackgan,xu2018attngan,li2019controllable} and autoregressive models~\cite{ramesh2021zero,ding2021cogview,wu2022nuwa,yuscaling} have also been studied in text-to-image generation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", other than diffusion models, the kind of networks that have also been studied in text-to-image generation is generative adversarial networks.
target:  generative adversarial networks.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", other than diffusion models, the kind of networks that have also been studied in text-to-image generation is

----- Row 114 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Other than diffusion models, generative adversarial networks~\cite{reed2016generative,zhang2017stackgan,xu2018attngan,li2019controllable} and autoregressive models~\cite{ramesh2021zero,ding2021cogview,wu2022nuwa,yuscaling} have also been studied in text-to-image generation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", besides diffusion models and generative adversarial networks, another class of models that has also been studied in text-to-image generation is autoregressive models
target:  autoregressive models
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", besides diffusion models and generative adversarial networks, another class of models that has also been studied in text-to-image generation is

----- Row 115 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OFT is inherently a model-agnostic finetuning approach and can be applied to any text-to-image diffusion model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT is described as a finetuning approach that is model-agnostic
target:  model-agnostic
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT is described as a finetuning approach that is

----- Row 116 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OFT is inherently a model-agnostic finetuning approach and can be applied to any text-to-image diffusion model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT is described as a model-agnostic finetuning approach that can be applied to any text-to-image diffusion model.
target:  any text-to-image diffusion model.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT is described as a model-agnostic finetuning approach that can be applied to

----- Row 118 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To prevent subject modification, \cite{avrahami2022blended,nichol2022glide} consider a given mask from users as an additional condition.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of subject-driven generation, \\cite{avrahami2022blended,nichol2022glide} use as an additional condition to prevent subject modification a given mask from users.
target:  a given mask from users.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of subject-driven generation, \\cite{avrahami2022blended,nichol2022glide} use as an additional condition to prevent subject modification

----- Row 119 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Inversion methods~\cite{choi2021ilvr,dhariwal2021diffusion,ramesh2022hierarchical,gal2022image} can be applied to modify the context without changing the subject.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in subject-driven generation, inversion methods can be applied to modify without changing the subject, the context
target:  the context
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in subject-driven generation, inversion methods can be applied to modify without changing the subject,

----- Row 120 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Inversion methods~\cite{choi2021ilvr,dhariwal2021diffusion,ramesh2022hierarchical,gal2022image} can be applied to modify the context without changing the subject.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of subject-driven generation, inversion methods can be applied to modify the context without changing the subject.
target:  the subject.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of subject-driven generation, inversion methods can be applied to modify the context without changing

----- Row 121 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Pivotal Tuning~\cite{roich2022pivotal}, a generator is finetuned around an initial inverted latent code with an additional regularization to preserve the identity.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of Pivotal Tuning for preserving identity, a generator is finetuned around an initial inverted latent code.
target:  an initial inverted latent code.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of Pivotal Tuning for preserving identity, a generator is finetuned around

----- Row 122 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Pivotal Tuning~\cite{roich2022pivotal}, a generator is finetuned around an initial inverted latent code with an additional regularization to preserve the identity.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in Pivotal Tuning, the additional regularization preserves the identity when a generator is finetuned around an initial inverted latent code: the identity.
target:  the identity.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in Pivotal Tuning, the additional regularization preserves the identity when a generator is finetuned around an initial inverted latent code:

----- Row 123 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Similarly, \cite{nitzan2022mystyle} learns a personalized generative face prior from a collection of a person's face images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", \cite{nitzan2022mystyle} learns from a collection of a person's face images a model of a personalized generative face prior.
target:  a personalized generative face prior.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", \cite{nitzan2022mystyle} learns from a collection of a person's face images a model of

----- Row 124 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Similarly, \cite{nitzan2022mystyle} learns a personalized generative face prior from a collection of a person's face images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in \cite{nitzan2022mystyle}, a personalized generative face prior is learned from a collection of images of a person's face.
target:  a person's face.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in \cite{nitzan2022mystyle}, a personalized generative face prior is learned from a collection of images of

----- Row 126 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \cite{casanova2021instance} can generate difference variations of an instance, but it may lose the instance-specific details.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when \cite{casanova2021instance} generates different variations of an instance, what may be lost is instance-specific details.
target:  instance-specific details.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when \cite{casanova2021instance} generates different variations of an instance, what may be lost is

----- Row 127 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With a customized token and a few subject images, DreamBooth~\cite{ruiz2023dreambooth} finetunes the text-to-image diffusion model using a reconstruction loss and a class-specific prior preservation loss.
fact: When DreamBooth uses a customized token and a few subject images, along with a reconstruction loss and a class-specific prior preservation loss, it finetunes the text-to-image diffusion model
target:  the text-to-image diffusion model
probe: When DreamBooth uses a customized token and a few subject images, along with a reconstruction loss and a class-specific prior preservation loss, it finetunes

----- Row 128 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With a customized token and a few subject images, DreamBooth~\cite{ruiz2023dreambooth} finetunes the text-to-image diffusion model using a reconstruction loss and a class-specific prior preservation loss.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when DreamBooth finetunes the text-to-image diffusion model with a customized token and a few subject images, it uses an objective consisting of a reconstruction loss.
target:  a reconstruction loss.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when DreamBooth finetunes the text-to-image diffusion model with a customized token and a few subject images, it uses an objective consisting of

----- Row 129 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With a customized token and a few subject images, DreamBooth~\cite{ruiz2023dreambooth} finetunes the text-to-image diffusion model using a reconstruction loss and a class-specific prior preservation loss.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when describing DreamBooth finetuning of a text-to-image diffusion model with a customized token and a few subject images, the additional loss used alongside a reconstruction loss is a class-specific prior preservation loss.
target:  a class-specific prior preservation loss.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when describing DreamBooth finetuning of a text-to-image diffusion model with a customized token and a few subject images, the additional loss used alongside a reconstruction loss is

----- Row 130 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OFT adopts the DreamBooth framework, but instead of performing naive finetuning with a small learning rate, OFT finetunes the model with orthogonal transformations.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT adopts, instead of naive finetuning with a small learning rate, the framework used before finetuning the model with orthogonal transformations: the DreamBooth framework.
target:  the DreamBooth framework.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT adopts, instead of naive finetuning with a small learning rate, the framework used before finetuning the model with orthogonal transformations:

----- Row 131 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OFT adopts the DreamBooth framework, but instead of performing naive finetuning with a small learning rate, OFT finetunes the model with orthogonal transformations.
fact: In the DreamBooth framework, OFT finetunes the model using orthogonal transformations
target:  orthogonal transformations
probe: In the DreamBooth framework, OFT finetunes the model using

----- Row 132 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The task of image-to-image translation can be viewed as a form of controllable generation, and previous methods mostly adopt conditional generative adversarial networks~\cite{isola2017image,zhu2017toward,wang2018high,park2019semantic,choi2018stargan}.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the task of image-to-image translation can be viewed as controllable generation
target:  controllable generation
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the task of image-to-image translation can be viewed as

----- Row 133 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The task of image-to-image translation can be viewed as a form of controllable generation, and previous methods mostly adopt conditional generative adversarial networks~\cite{isola2017image,zhu2017toward,wang2018high,park2019semantic,choi2018stargan}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of controllable generation where image-to-image translation is viewed as a form of controllable generation, previous methods mostly adopt conditional generative adversarial networks.
target:  conditional generative adversarial networks.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of controllable generation where image-to-image translation is viewed as a form of controllable generation, previous methods mostly adopt

----- Row 134 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Diffusion models are also used for image-to-image translation~\cite{saharia2022palette,voynov2022sketch,wang2022pretraining}.
fact: In the discussion of controllable generation, the models also used for image-to-image translation are Diffusion models.
target:  Diffusion models.
probe: In the discussion of controllable generation, the models also used for image-to-image translation are

----- Row 135 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: More recently, ControlNet~\cite{zhang2023adding} proposes to control a pretrained diffusion model by finetuning and adapting it to additional control signals and achieves impressive controllable generation performance.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the method described as controlling a pretrained diffusion model by finetuning it and adapting it to additional control signals in the controllable generation setting is ControlNet.
target:  ControlNet.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the method described as controlling a pretrained diffusion model by finetuning it and adapting it to additional control signals in the controllable generation setting is

----- Row 136 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: More recently, ControlNet~\cite{zhang2023adding} proposes to control a pretrained diffusion model by finetuning and adapting it to additional control signals and achieves impressive controllable generation performance.
fact: ControlNet proposes to control by finetuning and adapting to additional control signals a pretrained diffusion model.
target:  a pretrained diffusion model.
probe: ControlNet proposes to control by finetuning and adapting to additional control signals

----- Row 137 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: More recently, ControlNet~\cite{zhang2023adding} proposes to control a pretrained diffusion model by finetuning and adapting it to additional control signals and achieves impressive controllable generation performance.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", ControlNet achieves by finetuning a pretrained diffusion model and adapting it to additional control signals what can be regarded as controllable generation.
target:  controllable generation.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", ControlNet achieves by finetuning a pretrained diffusion model and adapting it to additional control signals what can be regarded as

----- Row 138 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Another concurrent and similar work, T2I-Adapter~\cite{mou2023t2i}, also finetunes a pretrained diffusion model in order to gain stronger controllability for the generated images.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the concurrent and similar work that also finetunes a pretrained diffusion model in order to gain stronger controllability for the generated images is T2I-Adapter.
target:  T2I-Adapter.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the concurrent and similar work that also finetunes a pretrained diffusion model in order to gain stronger controllability for the generated images is

----- Row 139 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Another concurrent and similar work, T2I-Adapter~\cite{mou2023t2i}, also finetunes a pretrained diffusion model in order to gain stronger controllability for the generated images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", T2I-Adapter aims to make the generated outputs of a finetuned pretrained diffusion model more controllable: the generated images
target:  the generated images
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", T2I-Adapter aims to make the generated outputs of a finetuned pretrained diffusion model more controllable:

----- Row 140 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following the same task setting in \cite{zhang2023adding,mou2023t2i}, we apply OFT to finetune pretrained diffusion models, yielding consistently better controllability with fewer training data and less finetuning parameters.
fact: The method the authors apply to finetune pretrained diffusion models under the same task setting as ControlNet and T2I-Adapter is OFT.
target:  OFT.
probe: The method the authors apply to finetune pretrained diffusion models under the same task setting as ControlNet and T2I-Adapter is

----- Row 141 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following the same task setting in \cite{zhang2023adding,mou2023t2i}, we apply OFT to finetune pretrained diffusion models, yielding consistently better controllability with fewer training data and less finetuning parameters.
fact: According to the paper, when OFT is used to finetune pretrained diffusion models under the same task setting as ControlNet and T2I-Adapter, the aspect that is consistently better while using fewer training data and fewer finetuning parameters is controllability.
target:  controllability.
probe: According to the paper, when OFT is used to finetune pretrained diffusion models under the same task setting as ControlNet and T2I-Adapter, the aspect that is consistently better while using fewer training data and fewer finetuning parameters is

----- Row 142 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following the same task setting in \cite{zhang2023adding,mou2023t2i}, we apply OFT to finetune pretrained diffusion models, yielding consistently better controllability with fewer training data and less finetuning parameters.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when OFT is applied to finetune pretrained diffusion models under the same task setting as ControlNet and T2I-Adapter, it achieves consistently better controllability with fewer training data and fewer finetuning parameters.
target:  finetuning parameters.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when OFT is applied to finetune pretrained diffusion models under the same task setting as ControlNet and T2I-Adapter, it achieves consistently better controllability with fewer training data and fewer

----- Row 143 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: More significantly, OFT does not introduce any additional computational overhead during test-time inference.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when used to finetune pretrained diffusion models, OFT avoids introducing during test-time inference any additional computational overhead.
target:  any additional computational overhead.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when used to finetune pretrained diffusion models, OFT avoids introducing during test-time inference

----- Row 144 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: More significantly, OFT does not introduce any additional computational overhead during test-time inference.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT avoids introducing any additional computational overhead during test-time inference.
target:  test-time inference.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT avoids introducing any additional computational overhead during

----- Row 145 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finetuning large pretrained models on downstream tasks has been increasingly popular nowadays~\cite{devlin2018bert,brown2020language,he2022masked}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of models that have become increasingly popular to finetune on downstream tasks nowadays are large pretrained models.
target:  large pretrained models.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of models that have become increasingly popular to finetune on downstream tasks nowadays are

----- Row 146 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finetuning large pretrained models on downstream tasks has been increasingly popular nowadays~\cite{devlin2018bert,brown2020language,he2022masked}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", finetuning large pretrained models on downstream tasks has become increasingly popular nowadays, especially on downstream tasks
target:  downstream tasks
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", finetuning large pretrained models on downstream tasks has become increasingly popular nowadays, especially on

----- Row 147 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As a form of finetuning, adaptation methods (\emph{e.g.}, \cite{hulora2022,houlsby2019parameter,pfeiffer2020adapterfusion}) are heavily studied in natural language processing.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", adaptation methods are heavily studied as a form of finetuning in the field of natural language processing.
target:  natural language processing.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", adaptation methods are heavily studied as a form of finetuning in the field of

----- Row 148 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As a form of finetuning, adaptation methods (\emph{e.g.}, \cite{hulora2022,houlsby2019parameter,pfeiffer2020adapterfusion}) are heavily studied in natural language processing.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of methods that are heavily studied in natural language processing as a form of finetuning are adaptation methods.
target:  adaptation methods.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of methods that are heavily studied in natural language processing as a form of finetuning are

----- Row 149 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: LoRA~\cite{hulora2022} is the most relevant work to OFT, and it assumes a low-rank structure for the additive weight update during finetuning.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", LoRA assumes a low-rank structure for the additive weight update during finetuning, a low-rank structure.
target:  a low-rank structure.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", LoRA assumes a low-rank structure for the additive weight update during finetuning,

----- Row 150 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: LoRA~\cite{hulora2022} is the most relevant work to OFT, and it assumes a low-rank structure for the additive weight update during finetuning.
fact: LoRA assumes a low-rank structure for the additive weight update during finetuning.
target:  finetuning.
probe: LoRA assumes a low-rank structure for the additive weight update during

----- Row 151 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, OFT uses layer-shared orthogonal transformation to update neuron weights in a multiplicative manner, and it provably preserves the pair-wise angles among neurons in the same layer, yielding better stability.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the comparison between OFT and LoRA as finetuning methods, OFT updates neuron weights in a multiplicative manner using layer-shared orthogonal transformation.
target:  layer-shared orthogonal transformation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the comparison between OFT and LoRA as finetuning methods, OFT updates neuron weights in a multiplicative manner using

----- Row 152 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, OFT uses layer-shared orthogonal transformation to update neuron weights in a multiplicative manner, and it provably preserves the pair-wise angles among neurons in the same layer, yielding better stability.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when OFT uses a layer-shared orthogonal transformation to update neuron weights in a multiplicative manner, it provably preserves among neurons in the same layer the pair-wise angles
target:  the pair-wise angles
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when OFT uses a layer-shared orthogonal transformation to update neuron weights in a multiplicative manner, it provably preserves among neurons in the same layer

----- Row 153 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, OFT uses layer-shared orthogonal transformation to update neuron weights in a multiplicative manner, and it provably preserves the pair-wise angles among neurons in the same layer, yielding better stability.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that OFT updates neuron weights with a layer-shared orthogonal transformation in a multiplicative manner and preserves the pair-wise angles among neurons within the same layer, yielding better stability.
target:  better stability.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that OFT updates neuron weights with a layer-shared orthogonal transformation in a multiplicative manner and preserves the pair-wise angles among neurons within the same layer, yielding

----- Row 155 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For the first question, we draw inspiration from the empirical observation in \cite{liu2018decoupled,chen2020angular} that angular feature difference well characterizes the semantic gap.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of why the authors want to finetune the angle of neurons in text-to-image diffusion models, the cited empirical observation says angular feature difference well characterizes the semantic gap.
target:  the semantic gap.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of why the authors want to finetune the angle of neurons in text-to-image diffusion models, the cited empirical observation says angular feature difference well characterizes

----- Row 156 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: SphereNet~\cite{liu2017deep} shows that training a neural network with all neurons normalized onto a unit hypersphere yields comparable capacity and even better generalizability, implying that the direction of neurons can fully capture the most important information from data.
fact: In SphereNet, all neurons are normalized onto a unit hypersphere when training a neural network, which is reported to yield comparable capacity and even better generalizability: a unit hypersphere.
target:  a unit hypersphere.
probe: In SphereNet, all neurons are normalized onto a unit hypersphere when training a neural network, which is reported to yield comparable capacity and even better generalizability:

----- Row 157 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: SphereNet~\cite{liu2017deep} shows that training a neural network with all neurons normalized onto a unit hypersphere yields comparable capacity and even better generalizability, implying that the direction of neurons can fully capture the most important information from data.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the SphereNet result implies that when a neural network is trained with all neurons normalized onto a unit hypersphere, the most important information from data can be fully captured by the direction of neurons.
target:  the direction of neurons.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the SphereNet result implies that when a neural network is trained with all neurons normalized onto a unit hypersphere, the most important information from data can be fully captured by

----- Row 158 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: SphereNet~\cite{liu2017deep} shows that training a neural network with all neurons normalized onto a unit hypersphere yields comparable capacity and even better generalizability, implying that the direction of neurons can fully capture the most important information from data.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", according to the authors’ discussion of SphereNet and the importance of neuron directions, training a neural network with all neurons normalized onto a unit hypersphere yields, in addition to comparable capacity, even better generalizability
target:  even better generalizability
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", according to the authors’ discussion of SphereNet and the importance of neuron directions, training a neural network with all neurons normalized onto a unit hypersphere yields, in addition to comparable capacity,

----- Row 159 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the training stage, we use the standard inner product to produce the feature map ($z$ denotes the element output of the convolution kernel $\bm{w}$ and $\bm{x}$ is the input in the sliding window).
fact: In the toy experiment where a standard convolutional autoencoder is trained on flower images, the training stage produces the feature map from the convolution kernel output $z$ and the input $\bm{x}$ in the sliding window using the standard inner product.
target:  the standard inner product.
probe: In the toy experiment where a standard convolutional autoencoder is trained on flower images, the training stage produces the feature map from the convolution kernel output $z$ and the input $\bm{x}$ in the sliding window using

----- Row 160 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the training stage, we use the standard inner product to produce the feature map ($z$ denotes the element output of the convolution kernel $\bm{w}$ and $\bm{x}$ is the input in the sliding window).
fact: In the toy experiment with a standard convolutional autoencoder trained on flower images, the element output of the convolution kernel $\bm{w}$ under the standard inner product is denoted by $z$.
target:  $z$.
probe: In the toy experiment with a standard convolutional autoencoder trained on flower images, the element output of the convolution kernel $\bm{w}$ under the standard inner product is denoted by

----- Row 161 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the testing stage, we compare three ways to generate the feature map: (a) the inner product used in training, (b) the magnitude information, and (c) the angular information.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the toy experiment on flower images with a standard convolutional autoencoder, one of the three feature-map generation methods compared at test time was the inner product used in training.
target:  the inner product used in training.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the toy experiment on flower images with a standard convolutional autoencoder, one of the three feature-map generation methods compared at test time was

----- Row 162 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the testing stage, we compare three ways to generate the feature map: (a) the inner product used in training, (b) the magnitude information, and (c) the angular information.
fact: In the toy experiment with a standard convolutional autoencoder trained on flower images in "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," method (b) generates the feature map during testing using the magnitude information
target:  the magnitude information
probe: In the toy experiment with a standard convolutional autoencoder trained on flower images in "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," method (b) generates the feature map during testing using

----- Row 163 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the testing stage, we compare three ways to generate the feature map: (a) the inner product used in training, (b) the magnitude information, and (c) the angular information.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the toy experiment where a standard convolutional autoencoder is trained on flower images, the testing stage uses a third way to generate the feature map, alongside the inner product used in training and the magnitude information, namely the angular information
target:  the angular information
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the toy experiment where a standard convolutional autoencoder is trained on flower images, the testing stage uses a third way to generate the feature map, alongside the inner product used in training and the magnitude information, namely

----- Row 164 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We emphasize that we do not apply the cosine activation (c) during training, and the training is done only based on inner product.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors emphasize that they do not apply during training, given that the training is based only on inner product, the cosine activation (c)
target:  the cosine activation (c)
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors emphasize that they do not apply during training, given that the training is based only on inner product,

----- Row 165 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We emphasize that we do not apply the cosine activation (c) during training, and the training is done only based on inner product.
fact: In the toy autoencoder analysis of feature-map generation, given that the authors do not apply the cosine activation (c) during training, the training is based on the inner product.
target:  inner product.
probe: In the toy autoencoder analysis of feature-map generation, given that the authors do not apply the cosine activation (c) during training, the training is based on the

----- Row 167 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The results imply that the angles (directions) of neurons play the major role in storing the semantic information of the input images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the angles (directions) of neurons play the major role in storing, based on the toy autoencoder results discussed in Figure~\ref{fig:toy_ae}, the semantic information of the input images.
target:  the semantic information of the input images.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the angles (directions) of neurons play the major role in storing, based on the toy autoencoder results discussed in Figure~\ref{fig:toy_ae},

----- Row 168 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In order to modify the semantic information of images, finetuning the neuron directions will likely be more effective.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", what is likely to be more effective for modifying the semantic information of images is the neuron directions.
target:  the neuron directions.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", what is likely to be more effective for modifying the semantic information of images is

----- Row 169 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In order to modify the semantic information of images, finetuning the neuron directions will likely be more effective.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of information of images that the authors say can be modified by finetuning the neuron directions is the semantic information.
target:  the semantic information.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of information of images that the authors say can be modified by finetuning the neuron directions is

----- Row 170 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For the second question, the simplest way to finetune direction of neurons is to simultaneously rotate / reflect all the neurons (in the same layer), which naturally brings in orthogonal transformation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the simplest way to finetune the direction of neurons in the same layer is to simultaneously rotate / reflect all the neurons.
target:  simultaneously rotate / reflect all the neurons.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the simplest way to finetune the direction of neurons in the same layer is to

----- Row 171 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For the second question, the simplest way to finetune direction of neurons is to simultaneously rotate / reflect all the neurons (in the same layer), which naturally brings in orthogonal transformation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors describe the simplest way to finetune the direction of neurons by simultaneously rotating or reflecting all the neurons in the same layer, this naturally introduces an orthogonal transformation
target:  orthogonal transformation
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors describe the simplest way to finetune the direction of neurons by simultaneously rotating or reflecting all the neurons in the same layer, this naturally introduces an

----- Row 172 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It may be more flexible to use some other angular transformation that rotates different neurons with different angles, but we find that orthogonal transformation is a sweet spot between flexibility and regularity.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors find that a sweet spot between flexibility and regularity when finetuning the directions of neurons to modify the semantic information of images is orthogonal transformation.
target:  orthogonal transformation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors find that a sweet spot between flexibility and regularity when finetuning the directions of neurons to modify the semantic information of images is

----- Row 173 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It may be more flexible to use some other angular transformation that rotates different neurons with different angles, but we find that orthogonal transformation is a sweet spot between flexibility and regularity.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that another transformation could be more flexible than orthogonal transformation because it rotates different neurons with different angles
target:  angles
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that another transformation could be more flexible than orthogonal transformation because it rotates different neurons with different

----- Row 174 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, \cite{liu2021orthogonal} shows that orthogonal transformation is sufficiently powerful for learning neural networks.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", \cite{liu2021orthogonal} shows that something sufficiently powerful for learning neural networks is orthogonal transformation.
target:  orthogonal transformation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", \cite{liu2021orthogonal} shows that something sufficiently powerful for learning neural networks is

----- Row 175 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, \cite{liu2021orthogonal} shows that orthogonal transformation is sufficiently powerful for learning neural networks.
fact: According to \cite{liu2021orthogonal}, orthogonal transformation is sufficiently powerful for learning for neural networks.
target:  neural networks.
probe: According to \cite{liu2021orthogonal}, orthogonal transformation is sufficiently powerful for learning for

----- Row 176 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To support our argument, we perform an experiment to demonstrate the effective regularization induced by the orthogonality constraint.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment using the setting of ControlNet, the experiment demonstrates that the orthogonality constraint induces effective regularization.
target:  effective regularization.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment using the setting of ControlNet, the experiment demonstrates that the orthogonality constraint induces

----- Row 177 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To support our argument, we perform an experiment to demonstrate the effective regularization induced by the orthogonality constraint.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," the authors state that performing an experiment to demonstrate the effective regularization induced by the orthogonality constraint supports our argument.
target:  our argument.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," the authors state that performing an experiment to demonstrate the effective regularization induced by the orthogonality constraint supports

----- Row 178 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can observe that our standard OFT performs quite stably and achieves accurate control after the training is finished (epoch 20).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment using the ControlNet setting, standard OFT performs during training, before achieving accurate control after training is finished at epoch 20, quite stably.
target:  quite stably.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment using the ControlNet setting, standard OFT performs during training, before achieving accurate control after training is finished at epoch 20,

----- Row 179 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can observe that our standard OFT performs quite stably and achieves accurate control after the training is finished (epoch 20).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment using the setting of ControlNet, standard OFT achieves accurate control after the training is finished (epoch 20)
target:  after the training is finished (epoch 20)
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment using the setting of ControlNet, standard OFT achieves accurate control

----- Row 180 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In comparison, OFT without the orthogonality constraint fails to generate any realistic image and achieve no control effect.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment using the setting of ControlNet, OFT without the orthogonality constraint fails to generate any realistic image.
target:  any realistic image.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment using the setting of ControlNet, OFT without the orthogonality constraint fails to generate

----- Row 181 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In comparison, OFT without the orthogonality constraint fails to generate any realistic image and achieve no control effect.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment conducted using the ControlNet setting, OFT without the orthogonality constraint achieves no control effect.
target:  no control effect.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the controllable generation experiment conducted using the ControlNet setting, OFT without the orthogonality constraint achieves

----- Row 182 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The conventional finetuning strategy typically uses gradient descent with a small learning rate to update a model (or certain layers of a model).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the optimization method that the conventional finetuning strategy typically uses to update a model or certain layers of a model with a small learning rate is gradient descent
target:  gradient descent
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the optimization method that the conventional finetuning strategy typically uses to update a model or certain layers of a model with a small learning rate is

----- Row 183 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The conventional finetuning strategy typically uses gradient descent with a small learning rate to update a model (or certain layers of a model).
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors explain that the conventional finetuning strategy updates a model, or certain layers of a model, using gradient descent. This strategy typically uses a small learning rate.
target:  a small learning rate.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors explain that the conventional finetuning strategy updates a model, or certain layers of a model, using gradient descent. This strategy typically uses

----- Row 184 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The small learning rate implicitly encourages a small deviation from the pretrained model, and the standard finetuning essentially aims to train the model while implicitly minimizing $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$ where $\bm{M}$ is the finetuned model weights and $\bm{M}^0$ is the pretrained model weights.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", using a small learning rate during standard finetuning implicitly encourages a small deviation from the pretrained model.
target:  a small deviation from the pretrained model.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", using a small learning rate during standard finetuning implicitly encourages

----- Row 185 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The small learning rate implicitly encourages a small deviation from the pretrained model, and the standard finetuning essentially aims to train the model while implicitly minimizing $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$ where $\bm{M}$ is the finetuned model weights and $\bm{M}^0$ is the pretrained model weights.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", according to the discussion of conventional finetuning with a small learning rate, standard finetuning is essentially aiming to minimize the quantity between the finetuned model weights $\bm{M}$ and the pretrained model weights $\bm{M}^0$: $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$
target:  $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", according to the discussion of conventional finetuning with a small learning rate, standard finetuning is essentially aiming to minimize the quantity between the finetuned model weights $\bm{M}$ and the pretrained model weights $\bm{M}^0$:

----- Row 186 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The small learning rate implicitly encourages a small deviation from the pretrained model, and the standard finetuning essentially aims to train the model while implicitly minimizing $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$ where $\bm{M}$ is the finetuned model weights and $\bm{M}^0$ is the pretrained model weights.
fact: In the discussion of standard finetuning in "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", which implicitly minimizes $\| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0 \|$, $\bm{M}^0$ denotes the pretrained model weights.
target:  the pretrained model weights.
probe: In the discussion of standard finetuning in "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", which implicitly minimizes $\| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0 \|$, $\bm{M}^0$ denotes

----- Row 187 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This implicit constraint makes intuitive sense, but it can still be too flexible for finetuning a large model.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors note that standard finetuning implicitly minimizes $\| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$ between the finetuned model weights $\bm{M}$ and the pretrained model weights $\bm{M}^0$, but for finetuning a large model this implicit constraint can still be too flexible.
target:  too flexible.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors note that standard finetuning implicitly minimizes $\| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$ between the finetuned model weights $\bm{M}$ and the pretrained model weights $\bm{M}^0$, but for finetuning a large model this implicit constraint can still be

----- Row 188 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This implicit constraint makes intuitive sense, but it can still be too flexible for finetuning a large model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors explain that standard finetuning implicitly minimizes the deviation $\| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$ from the pretrained model weights, but this implicit constraint can still be too flexible when applied to finetuning a large model
target:  finetuning a large model
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors explain that standard finetuning implicitly minimizes the deviation $\| \bm{M} - \bm{M}^0\|$ from the pretrained model weights, but this implicit constraint can still be too flexible when applied to

----- Row 189 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To address this, LoRA introduces an additional low-rank constraint for the weight update, \emph{i.e.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$ where $r'$ is set to be some small number.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when LoRA is used to finetune the model weights $\bm{M}$ relative to the pretrained weights $\bm{M}^0$, the additional constraint imposed on the weight update, as expressed by $\text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$, is a low-rank constraint.
target:  low-rank constraint.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when LoRA is used to finetune the model weights $\bm{M}$ relative to the pretrained weights $\bm{M}^0$, the additional constraint imposed on the weight update, as expressed by $\text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$, is a

----- Row 190 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To address this, LoRA introduces an additional low-rank constraint for the weight update, \emph{i.e.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$ where $r'$ is set to be some small number.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when discussing LoRA as compared with standard finetuning, the low-rank constraint imposed on the weight update is $\text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$.
target:  $\text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when discussing LoRA as compared with standard finetuning, the low-rank constraint imposed on the weight update is

----- Row 191 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To address this, LoRA introduces an additional low-rank constraint for the weight update, \emph{i.e.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$ where $r'$ is set to be some small number.
fact: In the LoRA additional low-rank constraint on the weight update, $\text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$, and the paper characterizes $r'$ as some small number
target:  some small number
probe: In the LoRA additional low-rank constraint on the weight update, $\text{rank}(\bm{M} - \bm{M}^0)=r'$, and the paper characterizes $r'$ as

----- Row 192 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Different from LoRA, OFT introduces a constraint for the pair-wise neuron similarity: $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \| \text{HE}(\bm{M})-\text{HE}(\bm{M}^0) \|=0$ where $\text{HE}(\cdot)$ denotes hyperspherical energy of a weight matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the orthogonal finetuning (OFT) constraint on pair-wise neuron similarity, $\text{HE}(\cdot)$ denotes the hyperspherical energy of a weight matrix.
target:  hyperspherical energy of a weight matrix.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the orthogonal finetuning (OFT) constraint on pair-wise neuron similarity, $\text{HE}(\cdot)$ denotes the

----- Row 193 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Different from LoRA, OFT introduces a constraint for the pair-wise neuron similarity: $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \| \text{HE}(\bm{M})-\text{HE}(\bm{M}^0) \|=0$ where $\text{HE}(\cdot)$ denotes hyperspherical energy of a weight matrix.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT introduces the constraint on pair-wise neuron similarity between the updated weight matrix $\bm{M}$ and the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{M}^0$ as $\| \text{HE}(\bm{M})-\text{HE}(\bm{M}^0) \|=0$
target:  $\| \text{HE}(\bm{M})-\text{HE}(\bm{M}^0) \|=0$
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT introduces the constraint on pair-wise neuron similarity between the updated weight matrix $\bm{M}$ and the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{M}^0$ as

----- Row 194 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As an illustrative example, we consider a fully connected layer $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{W}=\{\bm{w}_1,\cdots,\bm{w}_n\}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$ where $\bm{w}_i\in\mathbb{R}^{d}$ is the $i$-th neuron ($\bm{W}^0$ is the pretrained weights).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the illustrative example of a fully connected layer used to explain OFT, the notation the authors use for that layer is $\bm{W}=\{\bm{w}_1,\cdots,\bm{w}_n\}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$
target:  $\bm{W}=\{\bm{w}_1,\cdots,\bm{w}_n\}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the illustrative example of a fully connected layer used to explain OFT, the notation the authors use for that layer is

----- Row 195 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As an illustrative example, we consider a fully connected layer $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{W}=\{\bm{w}_1,\cdots,\bm{w}_n\}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$ where $\bm{w}_i\in\mathbb{R}^{d}$ is the $i$-th neuron ($\bm{W}^0$ is the pretrained weights).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the illustrative example of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}=\{\bm{w}_1,\cdots,\bm{w}_n\}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$, each neuron $\bm{w}_i$ belongs to $\mathbb{R}^{d}$.
target:  $\mathbb{R}^{d}$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the illustrative example of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}=\{\bm{w}_1,\cdots,\bm{w}_n\}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$, each neuron $\bm{w}_i$ belongs to

----- Row 196 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The output vector $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{z}\in\mathbb{R}^n$ of this fully connected layer is computed by $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}$ where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{x}\in\mathbb{R}^d$ is the input vector.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the illustrative example of a fully connected layer with weight matrix $\bm{W}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$ and input vector $\bm{x}\in\mathbb{R}^d$, the output vector $\bm{z}\in\mathbb{R}^n$ is computed as $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}$
target:  $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the illustrative example of a fully connected layer with weight matrix $\bm{W}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$ and input vector $\bm{x}\in\mathbb{R}^d$, the output vector $\bm{z}\in\mathbb{R}^n$ is computed as

----- Row 197 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The output vector $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{z}\in\mathbb{R}^n$ of this fully connected layer is computed by $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}$ where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{x}\in\mathbb{R}^d$ is the input vector.
fact: In the fully connected layer example used to explain OFT, the notation for the input vector is $\bm{x}\in\mathbb{R}^d$.
target:  $\bm{x}\in\mathbb{R}^d$.
probe: In the fully connected layer example used to explain OFT, the notation for the input vector is

----- Row 198 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OFT can be interpreted as minimizing the hyperspherical energy difference between the finetuned model and the pretrained model:

\begin{equation}\label{eq:oft_principle}
\footnotesize
\min_{\bm{W}} \left\| \text{HE}(\bm{W})-\text{HE}(\bm{W}^0)\right\|~~\Leftrightarrow~~\min_{\bm{W}} \bigg{\|} \sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}_i-\hat{\bm{w}}_j\|^{-1}-\sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}^0_i-\hat{\bm{w}}^0_j\|^{-1}\bigg{\|}
\end{equation}

where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \hat{\bm{w}}_i:=\bm{w}_i/\|\bm{w}_i\|$ denotes the $i$-th normalized neuron, and the hyperspherical energy of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ is defined as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \text{HE}(\bm{W}):= \sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}_i-\hat{\bm{w}}_j\|^{-1}$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT can be interpreted as minimizing the difference between the finetuned model and the pretrained model in the quantity defined for a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ as hyperspherical energy.
target:  hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT can be interpreted as minimizing the difference between the finetuned model and the pretrained model in the quantity defined for a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ as

----- Row 199 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OFT can be interpreted as minimizing the hyperspherical energy difference between the finetuned model and the pretrained model:

\begin{equation}\label{eq:oft_principle}
\footnotesize
\min_{\bm{W}} \left\| \text{HE}(\bm{W})-\text{HE}(\bm{W}^0)\right\|~~\Leftrightarrow~~\min_{\bm{W}} \bigg{\|} \sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}_i-\hat{\bm{w}}_j\|^{-1}-\sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}^0_i-\hat{\bm{w}}^0_j\|^{-1}\bigg{\|}
\end{equation}

where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \hat{\bm{w}}_i:=\bm{w}_i/\|\bm{w}_i\|$ denotes the $i$-th normalized neuron, and the hyperspherical energy of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ is defined as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \text{HE}(\bm{W}):= \sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}_i-\hat{\bm{w}}_j\|^{-1}$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the definition of the hyperspherical energy of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$, the notation denoting the $i$-th normalized neuron is "$\hat{\bm{w}}_i:=\bm{w}_i/\|\bm{w}_i\|$".
target:  "$\hat{\bm{w}}_i:=\bm{w}_i/\|\bm{w}_i\|$".
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the definition of the hyperspherical energy of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$, the notation denoting the $i$-th normalized neuron is

----- Row 200 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OFT can be interpreted as minimizing the hyperspherical energy difference between the finetuned model and the pretrained model:

\begin{equation}\label{eq:oft_principle}
\footnotesize
\min_{\bm{W}} \left\| \text{HE}(\bm{W})-\text{HE}(\bm{W}^0)\right\|~~\Leftrightarrow~~\min_{\bm{W}} \bigg{\|} \sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}_i-\hat{\bm{w}}_j\|^{-1}-\sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}^0_i-\hat{\bm{w}}^0_j\|^{-1}\bigg{\|}
\end{equation}

where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \hat{\bm{w}}_i:=\bm{w}_i/\|\bm{w}_i\|$ denotes the $i$-th normalized neuron, and the hyperspherical energy of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ is defined as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \text{HE}(\bm{W}):= \sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}_i-\hat{\bm{w}}_j\|^{-1}$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the hyperspherical energy of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ in terms of its normalized neurons $\hat{\bm{w}}_i$ is defined as $\text{HE}(\bm{W}):= \sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}_i-\hat{\bm{w}}_j\|^{-1}$
target:  $\text{HE}(\bm{W}):= \sum_{i\neq j} \|\hat{\bm{w}}_i-\hat{\bm{w}}_j\|^{-1}$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the hyperspherical energy of a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ in terms of its normalized neurons $\hat{\bm{w}}_i$ is defined as

----- Row 201 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One can easily observe that the attainable minimum is zero for Eq.~\eqref{eq:oft_principle}.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the attainable minimum of Eq.~\eqref{eq:oft_principle}, which measures the energy difference between the finetuned model and the pretrained model, is zero.
target:  zero.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the attainable minimum of Eq.~\eqref{eq:oft_principle}, which measures the energy difference between the finetuned model and the pretrained model, is

----- Row 202 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The minimum can be achieved as long as $\bm{W}$ and $\bm{W}^0$ differ only up to a rotation or reflection, \emph{i.e.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$ in which $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$ is an orthogonal matrix (The determinant $1$ or $-1$ means rotation or reflection, respectively).
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the minimum of the hyperspherical-energy objective can be achieved for $\bm{W}$ and $\bm{W}^0$ when they differ only up to a rotation or reflection
target:  differ only up to a rotation or reflection
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the minimum of the hyperspherical-energy objective can be achieved for $\bm{W}$ and $\bm{W}^0$ when they

----- Row 203 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The minimum can be achieved as long as $\bm{W}$ and $\bm{W}^0$ differ only up to a rotation or reflection, \emph{i.e.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$ in which $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$ is an orthogonal matrix (The determinant $1$ or $-1$ means rotation or reflection, respectively).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the minimum of the hyperspherical energy matching objective is achieved up to a rotation or reflection, the equation gives the relationship between the fully connected layer weights $\bm{W}$ and the pretrained weights $\bm{W}^0$ as $\bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$
target:  $\bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the minimum of the hyperspherical energy matching objective is achieved up to a rotation or reflection, the equation gives the relationship between the fully connected layer weights $\bm{W}$ and the pretrained weights $\bm{W}^0$ as

----- Row 204 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The minimum can be achieved as long as $\bm{W}$ and $\bm{W}^0$ differ only up to a rotation or reflection, \emph{i.e.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$ in which $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$ is an orthogonal matrix (The determinant $1$ or $-1$ means rotation or reflection, respectively).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of the hyperspherical energy minimization condition for a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ and its pretrained version $\bm{W}^0$, $\bm{R}$ in the expression $\bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$ is an orthogonal matrix.
target:  an orthogonal matrix.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of the hyperspherical energy minimization condition for a fully connected layer $\bm{W}$ and its pretrained version $\bm{W}^0$, $\bm{R}$ in the expression $\bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$ is

----- Row 205 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is exactly the idea of OFT, that we only need to finetune the neural network by learning layer-shared orthogonal matrices to transform neurons in each layer.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", according to the authors, OFT learns what kind of matrices in order to finetune the neural network and transform neurons in each layer: layer-shared orthogonal matrices.
target:  layer-shared orthogonal matrices.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", according to the authors, OFT learns what kind of matrices in order to finetune the neural network and transform neurons in each layer:

----- Row 206 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is exactly the idea of OFT, that we only need to finetune the neural network by learning layer-shared orthogonal matrices to transform neurons in each layer.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the learned layer-shared orthogonal matrices transform, in each layer, neurons.
target:  neurons.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the learned layer-shared orthogonal matrices transform, in each layer,

----- Row 207 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Formally, OFT seeks to optimize the orthogonal matrix $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d \times d}$ for a pretrained fully connected layer $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{W}^0\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$, changing the forward pass from $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{z}=(\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ to

\begin{equation}\label{eq:oft_general}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x},~~~\text{s.t.}~\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}
\end{equation}

where $\bm{W}$ denotes the OFT-finetuned weight matrix and $\bm{I}$ is an identity matrix.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for a pretrained fully connected layer $\bm{W}^0\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$ with forward pass $\bm{z}=(\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$, OFT modifies the layer by left-multiplying $\bm{W}^0$ with a trainable transform and seeks to optimize the orthogonal matrix $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d \times d}$.
target:  the orthogonal matrix $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d \times d}$.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for a pretrained fully connected layer $\bm{W}^0\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$ with forward pass $\bm{z}=(\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$, OFT modifies the layer by left-multiplying $\bm{W}^0$ with a trainable transform and seeks to optimize

----- Row 208 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Formally, OFT seeks to optimize the orthogonal matrix $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d \times d}$ for a pretrained fully connected layer $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{W}^0\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$, changing the forward pass from $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{z}=(\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ to

\begin{equation}\label{eq:oft_general}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x},~~~\text{s.t.}~\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}
\end{equation}

where $\bm{W}$ denotes the OFT-finetuned weight matrix and $\bm{I}$ is an identity matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for a pretrained fully connected layer in OFT, the new forward pass expression after replacing the original weights with the orthogonally finetuned weights is $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$
target:  $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for a pretrained fully connected layer in OFT, the new forward pass expression after replacing the original weights with the orthogonally finetuned weights is

----- Row 209 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Formally, OFT seeks to optimize the orthogonal matrix $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d \times d}$ for a pretrained fully connected layer $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{W}^0\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times n}$, changing the forward pass from $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{z}=(\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ to

\begin{equation}\label{eq:oft_general}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x},~~~\text{s.t.}~\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}
\end{equation}

where $\bm{W}$ denotes the OFT-finetuned weight matrix and $\bm{I}$ is an identity matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the constraint imposed on the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ in the OFT formulation for a pretrained fully connected layer is $\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}$.
target:  $\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the constraint imposed on the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ in the OFT formulation for a pretrained fully connected layer is

----- Row 210 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Similar to the zero initialization in LoRA, we need to ensure OFT to finetune the pretrained model exactly from $\bm{W}^0$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the requirement for OFT to finetune the pretrained model exactly from $\bm{W}^0$ is said to be similar to the zero initialization in LoRA
target:  the zero initialization in LoRA
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the requirement for OFT to finetune the pretrained model exactly from $\bm{W}^0$ is said to be similar to

----- Row 211 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Similar to the zero initialization in LoRA, we need to ensure OFT to finetune the pretrained model exactly from $\bm{W}^0$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT needs to finetune the pretrained model exactly from $\bm{W}^0$.
target:  $\bm{W}^0$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT needs to finetune the pretrained model exactly from

----- Row 212 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To achieve this, we initialize the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ to be an identity matrix so that the finetuned model starts with the pretrained weights.
fact: To ensure that OFT starts finetuning from the pretrained weights $\bm{W}^0$, the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ is initialized to an identity matrix.
target:  an identity matrix.
probe: To ensure that OFT starts finetuning from the pretrained weights $\bm{W}^0$, the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ is initialized to

----- Row 213 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To achieve this, we initialize the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ to be an identity matrix so that the finetuned model starts with the pretrained weights.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", initializing the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ to the identity matrix ensures that the finetuned model starts from the pretrained weights.
target:  the pretrained weights.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", initializing the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ to the identity matrix ensures that the finetuned model starts from

----- Row 214 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To guarantee the orthogonality of the matrix $\bm{R}$, we can use differential orthogonalization strategies discussed in \cite{liu2021orthogonal,lezcano2019cheap}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the strategies that can be used to guarantee the orthogonality of the matrix $\bm{R}$ in the OFT finetuning procedure are differential orthogonalization strategies.
target:  differential orthogonalization strategies.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the strategies that can be used to guarantee the orthogonality of the matrix $\bm{R}$ in the OFT finetuning procedure are

----- Row 215 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To guarantee the orthogonality of the matrix $\bm{R}$, we can use differential orthogonalization strategies discussed in \cite{liu2021orthogonal,lezcano2019cheap}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the citations referenced for the differential orthogonalization strategies used to guarantee the orthogonality of the matrix $\bm{R}$ in OFT are \cite{liu2021orthogonal,lezcano2019cheap}
target:  \cite{liu2021orthogonal,lezcano2019cheap}
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the citations referenced for the differential orthogonalization strategies used to guarantee the orthogonality of the matrix $\bm{R}$ in OFT are

----- Row 216 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Standard orthogonalization such as Gram-Schmidt method, despite differentiable, is often too expensive to compute in practice~\cite{liu2021orthogonal}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the standard orthogonalization method the authors describe as being differentiable but often too expensive to compute in practice is the Gram-Schmidt method.
target:  Gram-Schmidt method.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the standard orthogonalization method the authors describe as being differentiable but often too expensive to compute in practice is the

----- Row 217 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Standard orthogonalization such as Gram-Schmidt method, despite differentiable, is often too expensive to compute in practice~\cite{liu2021orthogonal}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", standard orthogonalization such as the Gram-Schmidt method is described as too expensive to compute in practice but differentiable
target:  differentiable
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", standard orthogonalization such as the Gram-Schmidt method is described as too expensive to compute in practice but

----- Row 218 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For better efficiency, we adopt Cayley parameterization to generate the orthogonal matrix.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors adopt the parameterization used in their efficiency-oriented orthogonalization method to generate the orthogonal matrix: Cayley parameterization
target:  Cayley parameterization
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors adopt the parameterization used in their efficiency-oriented orthogonalization method to generate the orthogonal matrix:

----- Row 219 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we construct the orthogonal matrix with $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$ where $\bm{Q}$ is a skew-symmetric matrix satisfying $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{Q}=-\bm{Q}^\top$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors use Cayley parameterization for efficiency instead of standard orthogonalization such as the Gram-Schmidt method, they construct the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ from the skew-symmetric matrix $\bm{Q}$ as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$
target:  $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors use Cayley parameterization for efficiency instead of standard orthogonalization such as the Gram-Schmidt method, they construct the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ from the skew-symmetric matrix $\bm{Q}$ as

----- Row 220 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we construct the orthogonal matrix with $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$ where $\bm{Q}$ is a skew-symmetric matrix satisfying $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{Q}=-\bm{Q}^\top$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the Cayley parameterization used to construct the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$, the matrix $\bm{Q}$ must satisfy $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{Q}=-\bm{Q}^\top$
target:  $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{Q}=-\bm{Q}^\top$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the Cayley parameterization used to construct the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$, the matrix $\bm{Q}$ must satisfy

----- Row 221 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Such an efficiency comes at a small price -- the Cayley parameterization can only produce orthogonal matrices with determinant $1$ which belongs to the special orthogonal group.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the orthogonal matrices generated by the Cayley parameterization can have determinant 1.
target:  1.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the orthogonal matrices generated by the Cayley parameterization can have determinant

----- Row 222 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Such an efficiency comes at a small price -- the Cayley parameterization can only produce orthogonal matrices with determinant $1$ which belongs to the special orthogonal group.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors use the Cayley parameterization to generate the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ for efficiency, the resulting orthogonal matrices belong to the special orthogonal group.
target:  the special orthogonal group.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors use the Cayley parameterization to generate the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ for efficiency, the resulting orthogonal matrices belong to

----- Row 223 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even if we use Cayley transform to parameterize the orthogonal matrix, $\bm{R}$ can still be very parameter-inefficient with a large $d$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the issue that can still affect the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ when the Cayley transform is used to parameterize it, especially for large $d$, is "very parameter-inefficient".
target:  "very parameter-inefficient".
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the issue that can still affect the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ when the Cayley transform is used to parameterize it, especially for large $d$, is

----- Row 224 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even if we use Cayley transform to parameterize the orthogonal matrix, $\bm{R}$ can still be very parameter-inefficient with a large $d$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ can still be very parameter-inefficient even if the Cayley transform is used to parameterize it with a large $d$.
target:  with a large $d$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ can still be very parameter-inefficient even if the Cayley transform is used to parameterize it

----- Row 225 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To address this, we propose to represent $\bm{R}$ with a block-diagonal matrix with $r$ blocks, leading to the following form:

\begin{equation}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{R}=\text{diag}(\bm{R}_1,\bm{R}_2,\cdots,\bm{R}_r)=\begin{bmatrix}
    \bm{R}_1\in \text{O}(\frac{d}{r}) &  &\\
    &\ddots & \\
    & & \bm{R}_r\in \text{O}(\frac{d}{r})
    \end{bmatrix}\in \text{O}(d)
\end{equation}

where $\text{O}(d)$ denotes the orthogonal group in dimension $d$, and $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$ and $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}_i\in\mathbb{R}^{d/r\times d/r},\forall i$ are orthogonal matrices.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors address the parameter inefficiency of representing the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$ for large $d$, they structure $\bm{R}$ as shown in the displayed equation as a block-diagonal matrix with $r$ blocks.
target:  a block-diagonal matrix with $r$ blocks.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors address the parameter inefficiency of representing the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$ for large $d$, they structure $\bm{R}$ as shown in the displayed equation as

----- Row 226 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To address this, we propose to represent $\bm{R}$ with a block-diagonal matrix with $r$ blocks, leading to the following form:

\begin{equation}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{R}=\text{diag}(\bm{R}_1,\bm{R}_2,\cdots,\bm{R}_r)=\begin{bmatrix}
    \bm{R}_1\in \text{O}(\frac{d}{r}) &  &\\
    &\ddots & \\
    & & \bm{R}_r\in \text{O}(\frac{d}{r})
    \end{bmatrix}\in \text{O}(d)
\end{equation}

where $\text{O}(d)$ denotes the orthogonal group in dimension $d$, and $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$ and $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}_i\in\mathbb{R}^{d/r\times d/r},\forall i$ are orthogonal matrices.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the block-diagonal parameterization of the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ with $r$ blocks, each block $\bm{R}_i$ belongs to the orthogonal group $\text{O}(\frac{d}{r})$
target:  $\text{O}(\frac{d}{r})$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the block-diagonal parameterization of the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ with $r$ blocks, each block $\bm{R}_i$ belongs to the orthogonal group

----- Row 227 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To address this, we propose to represent $\bm{R}$ with a block-diagonal matrix with $r$ blocks, leading to the following form:

\begin{equation}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{R}=\text{diag}(\bm{R}_1,\bm{R}_2,\cdots,\bm{R}_r)=\begin{bmatrix}
    \bm{R}_1\in \text{O}(\frac{d}{r}) &  &\\
    &\ddots & \\
    & & \bm{R}_r\in \text{O}(\frac{d}{r})
    \end{bmatrix}\in \text{O}(d)
\end{equation}

where $\text{O}(d)$ denotes the orthogonal group in dimension $d$, and $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$ and $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}_i\in\mathbb{R}^{d/r\times d/r},\forall i$ are orthogonal matrices.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors represent the full matrix $\bm{R}=\text{diag}(\bm{R}_1,\bm{R}_2,\cdots,\bm{R}_r)$ as a block-diagonal matrix with $r$ orthogonal blocks, and according to the paper $\bm{R}$ is an element of $\text{O}(d)$.
target:  $\text{O}(d)$.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors represent the full matrix $\bm{R}=\text{diag}(\bm{R}_1,\bm{R}_2,\cdots,\bm{R}_r)$ as a block-diagonal matrix with $r$ orthogonal blocks, and according to the paper $\bm{R}$ is an element of

----- Row 228 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r=1$, then the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix becomes a standard unconstrained one.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix becomes a standard unconstrained one under the condition $r=1$.
target:  $r=1$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix becomes a standard unconstrained one under the condition

----- Row 229 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r=1$, then the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix becomes a standard unconstrained one.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when $r=1$, the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix becomes a standard unconstrained one
target:  a standard unconstrained one
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when $r=1$, the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix becomes

----- Row 230 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For an orthogonal matrix with size $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu d\times d$, the number of parameters is $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu d(d-1)/2$, resulting in a complexity of $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", an orthogonal matrix of size $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu d\times d$ has $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu d(d-1)/2$
target:  $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu d(d-1)/2$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", an orthogonal matrix of size $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu d\times d$ has

----- Row 231 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For an orthogonal matrix with size $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu d\times d$, the number of parameters is $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu d(d-1)/2$, resulting in a complexity of $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the resulting complexity for an orthogonal matrix of size $d \times d$ is $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$.
target:  $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the resulting complexity for an orthogonal matrix of size $d \times d$ is

----- Row 232 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can optionally share the block matrix to further reduce the number of parameters, \emph{i.e.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{R}_i=\bm{R}_j,\forall i\neq j$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the condition imposed on the block matrices when they are optionally shared in the $r$-block diagonal orthogonal matrix parameterization to further reduce the number of parameters is $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{R}_i=\bm{R}_j,\forall i\neq j$
target:  $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\bm{R}_i=\bm{R}_j,\forall i\neq j$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the condition imposed on the block matrices when they are optionally shared in the $r$-block diagonal orthogonal matrix parameterization to further reduce the number of parameters is

----- Row 234 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite all these strategies to improve parameter efficiency, we note that the resulting matrix $\bm{R}$ remains orthogonal, so there is no sacrifice in preserving hyperspherical energy.
fact: After describing strategies to improve parameter efficiency, such as using an $r$-block diagonal matrix and optionally sharing the block matrix, the paper states that the resulting matrix $\bm{R}$ is still orthogonal.
target:  orthogonal.
probe: After describing strategies to improve parameter efficiency, such as using an $r$-block diagonal matrix and optionally sharing the block matrix, the paper states that the resulting matrix $\bm{R}$ is still

----- Row 235 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite all these strategies to improve parameter efficiency, we note that the resulting matrix $\bm{R}$ remains orthogonal, so there is no sacrifice in preserving hyperspherical energy.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", despite the parameter-efficiency strategies used for the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$, the fact that $\bm{R}$ remains orthogonal preserves hyperspherical energy.
target:  hyperspherical energy.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", despite the parameter-efficiency strategies used for the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$, the fact that $\bm{R}$ remains orthogonal preserves

----- Row 236 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For LoRA with a low-rank parameter $r'$, we have its number of trainable parameters as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r'(d+n)$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for LoRA with a low-rank parameter $r'$, the number of trainable parameters is $r'(d+n)$
target:  $r'(d+n)$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for LoRA with a low-rank parameter $r'$, the number of trainable parameters is

----- Row 237 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For LoRA with a low-rank parameter $r'$, we have its number of trainable parameters as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r'(d+n)$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the low-rank parameter in the expression for the number of trainable parameters of LoRA is $r'$.
target:  $r'$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the low-rank parameter in the expression for the number of trainable parameters of LoRA is

----- Row 238 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: If we consider both $r$ and $r'$ to be dependent on the neuron dimension $d$ (\emph{e.g.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r=r'=\alpha d$ where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu 0<\alpha\leq 1$ is some constant), then the parameter complexity of LoRA becomes $\mathcal{O}(d^2+dn)$ and the parameter complexity of OFT becomes $\mathcal{O}(d)$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when both the low-rank parameter $r'$ for LoRA and the OFT parameter $r$ are assumed to scale with the neuron dimension $d$ as $r=r'=lpha d$ for some constant $0<lpha\leq 1$, the resulting parameter complexity of LoRA is $9(d^2+dn)$.
target:  $9(d^2+dn)$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when both the low-rank parameter $r'$ for LoRA and the OFT parameter $r$ are assumed to scale with the neuron dimension $d$ as $r=r'=lpha d$ for some constant $0<lpha\leq 1$, the resulting parameter complexity of LoRA is

----- Row 240 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: If we consider both $r$ and $r'$ to be dependent on the neuron dimension $d$ (\emph{e.g.}, $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r=r'=\alpha d$ where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu 0<\alpha\leq 1$ is some constant), then the parameter complexity of LoRA becomes $\mathcal{O}(d^2+dn)$ and the parameter complexity of OFT becomes $\mathcal{O}(d)$.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," when the rank parameters $r$ and $r'$ are taken to depend on the neuron dimension $d$, the example relationship is $r=r'=\sqrt{d}$.
target:  $r=r'=\sqrt{d}$.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," when the rank parameters $r$ and $r'$ are taken to depend on the neuron dimension $d$, the example relationship is

----- Row 241 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Suppose we have a weight matrix with size $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu 128\times 128$, LoRA has $2,048$ trainable parameters with $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r'=8$, while OFT has $960$ trainable parameters with $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r=8$ (no block sharing is applied).
fact: In the concrete example in "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" comparing the parameter complexity of LoRA and OFT for a weight matrix of size $128\times 128$, LoRA has $2,048$ trainable parameters when $r'=8$, which is $2,048$.
target:  $2,048$.
probe: In the concrete example in "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" comparing the parameter complexity of LoRA and OFT for a weight matrix of size $128\times 128$, LoRA has $2,048$ trainable parameters when $r'=8$, which is

----- Row 242 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Suppose we have a weight matrix with size $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu 128\times 128$, LoRA has $2,048$ trainable parameters with $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r'=8$, while OFT has $960$ trainable parameters with $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r=8$ (no block sharing is applied).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the example comparing parameter complexity of LoRA and OFT for a $128\times 128$ weight matrix with no block sharing applied, the number of trainable parameters OFT has when $r=8$ is $960$.
target:  $960$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the example comparing parameter complexity of LoRA and OFT for a $128\times 128$ weight matrix with no block sharing applied, the number of trainable parameters OFT has when $r=8$ is

----- Row 243 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Suppose we have a weight matrix with size $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu 128\times 128$, LoRA has $2,048$ trainable parameters with $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r'=8$, while OFT has $960$ trainable parameters with $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu r=8$ (no block sharing is applied).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the concrete example used to compare the parameter complexities of LoRA and OFT, the size of the weight matrix assumed is $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu 128\times 128$.
target:  $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu 128\times 128$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the concrete example used to compare the parameter complexities of LoRA and OFT, the size of the weight matrix assumed is

----- Row 244 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can further limit the flexibility of original OFT by constraining the finetuned model to be within a small neighborhood of the pretrained model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors propose, in order to further limit the flexibility of original OFT, to constrain the finetuned model to be within a small neighborhood of the pretrained model
target:  a small neighborhood of the pretrained model
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors propose, in order to further limit the flexibility of original OFT, to constrain the finetuned model to be within

----- Row 245 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can further limit the flexibility of original OFT by constraining the finetuned model to be within a small neighborhood of the pretrained model.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", constraining the finetuned model to be within a small neighborhood of the pretrained model further limits the flexibility of original OFT.
target:  the flexibility of original OFT.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", constraining the finetuned model to be within a small neighborhood of the pretrained model further limits

----- Row 246 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, COFT uses the following forward pass:

\begin{equation}\label{eq:coft_general}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x},~~~\text{s.t.}~\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I},~\norm{\bm{R}-\bm{I}}\leq \epsilon
\end{equation}

which has an orthogonality constraint and an $\epsilon$-deviation constraint to an identity matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in COFT's forward pass, the expression for the transformed output $\bm{z}$ in terms of $\bm{W}$, $\bm{x}$, $\bm{R}$, and the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ under the orthogonality and $\epsilon$-deviation constraints is $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$
target:  $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in COFT's forward pass, the expression for the transformed output $\bm{z}$ in terms of $\bm{W}$, $\bm{x}$, $\bm{R}$, and the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ under the orthogonality and $\epsilon$-deviation constraints is

----- Row 247 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, COFT uses the following forward pass:

\begin{equation}\label{eq:coft_general}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x},~~~\text{s.t.}~\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I},~\norm{\bm{R}-\bm{I}}\leq \epsilon
\end{equation}

which has an orthogonality constraint and an $\epsilon$-deviation constraint to an identity matrix.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", COFT defines its forward pass as $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ with both an orthogonality condition and an $\epsilon$-deviation constraint. The constraint on $\bm{R}$ that enforces orthogonality in this forward pass is $\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}$
target:  $\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}$
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", COFT defines its forward pass as $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ with both an orthogonality condition and an $\epsilon$-deviation constraint. The constraint on $\bm{R}$ that enforces orthogonality in this forward pass is

----- Row 248 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, COFT uses the following forward pass:

\begin{equation}\label{eq:coft_general}
    \footnotesize
    \bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x},~~~\text{s.t.}~\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I},~\norm{\bm{R}-\bm{I}}\leq \epsilon
\end{equation}

which has an orthogonality constraint and an $\epsilon$-deviation constraint to an identity matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the COFT forward pass, the constraint imposed on the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ to keep the finetuned model within an $\epsilon$-neighborhood of the pretrained model is "$\norm{\bm{R}-\bm{I}}\leq \epsilon$".
target:  "$\norm{\bm{R}-\bm{I}}\leq \epsilon$".
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the COFT forward pass, the constraint imposed on the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ to keep the finetuned model within an $\epsilon$-neighborhood of the pretrained model is

----- Row 249 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, it is nontrivial to incorporate the $\epsilon$-deviation constraint to the Cayley-parameterized orthogonal matrix.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of the COFT forward pass $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ with constraints $\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}$ and $\norm{\bm{R}-\bm{I}}\leq\epsilon$, the authors say it is nontrivial to incorporate the $\epsilon$-deviation constraint with the Cayley-parameterized orthogonal matrix.
target:  the Cayley-parameterized orthogonal matrix.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of the COFT forward pass $\bm{z}=\bm{W}^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{R}\cdot\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ with constraints $\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{R}\bm{R}^\top=\bm{I}$ and $\norm{\bm{R}-\bm{I}}\leq\epsilon$, the authors say it is nontrivial to incorporate the $\epsilon$-deviation constraint with

----- Row 250 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To gain more insights on the Cayley transform, we apply the Neumann series to approximate $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$ as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\approx\bm{I}+2\bm{Q}+\mathcal{O}(\bm{Q}^2)$ (under the assumption that the Neumann \looseness=-1 {\parfillskip=0pt\par}

series converges in the operator norm).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the series the authors apply to approximate the Cayley transform expression $\bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$ in their discussion of the orthogonality constraint is the Neumann series
target:  Neumann series
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the series the authors apply to approximate the Cayley transform expression $\bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$ in their discussion of the orthogonality constraint is the

----- Row 251 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To gain more insights on the Cayley transform, we apply the Neumann series to approximate $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$ as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}\approx\bm{I}+2\bm{Q}+\mathcal{O}(\bm{Q}^2)$ (under the assumption that the Neumann \looseness=-1 {\parfillskip=0pt\par}

series converges in the operator norm).
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors use the Neumann series to approximate the Cayley-parameterized orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$ as $\bm{R}\approx\bm{I}+2\bm{Q}+\mathcal{O}(\bm{Q}^2)$ under the assumption that the Neumann series converges in the operator norm.
target:  the Neumann series converges in the operator norm.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors use the Neumann series to approximate the Cayley-parameterized orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}=(\bm{I}+\bm{Q})(I-\bm{Q})^{-1}$ as $\bm{R}\approx\bm{I}+2\bm{Q}+\mathcal{O}(\bm{Q}^2)$ under the assumption that

----- Row 252 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Therefore, we can move the constraint $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\|\bm{R}-\bm{I}\|\leq\epsilon$ inside the Cayley transform, and the equivalent constraint is $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \|\bm{Q}-\bm{0}\|\leq\epsilon'$ where $\bm{0}$ denotes an all-zero matrix and $\epsilon'$ is another error hyperparameter (different than $\epsilon$).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", after moving the deviation constraint $\|\bm{R}-\bm{I}\|\leq\epsilon$ inside the Cayley transform for the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$, the equivalent constraint imposed on $\bm{Q}$ is $\|\bm{Q}-\bm{0}\|\leq\epsilon'$
target:  $\|\bm{Q}-\bm{0}\|\leq\epsilon'$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", after moving the deviation constraint $\|\bm{R}-\bm{I}\|\leq\epsilon$ inside the Cayley transform for the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$, the equivalent constraint imposed on $\bm{Q}$ is

----- Row 254 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Therefore, we can move the constraint $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu\|\bm{R}-\bm{I}\|\leq\epsilon$ inside the Cayley transform, and the equivalent constraint is $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \|\bm{Q}-\bm{0}\|\leq\epsilon'$ where $\bm{0}$ denotes an all-zero matrix and $\epsilon'$ is another error hyperparameter (different than $\epsilon$).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors move the constraint $\|\bm{R}-\bm{I}\|\leq\epsilon$ inside the Cayley transform and rewrite it as $\|\bm{Q}-\bm{0}\|\leq\epsilon'$, they describe $\epsilon'$ as another error hyperparameter.
target:  another error hyperparameter.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors move the constraint $\|\bm{R}-\bm{I}\|\leq\epsilon$ inside the Cayley transform and rewrite it as $\|\bm{Q}-\bm{0}\|\leq\epsilon'$, they describe $\epsilon'$ as

----- Row 255 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The new constraint on the matrix $\bm{Q}$ can be easily enforced by projected gradient descent.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the new constraint on the matrix $\bm{Q}$ can be easily enforced by using the Cayley transform.
target:  by using the Cayley transform.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the new constraint on the matrix $\bm{Q}$ can be easily enforced

----- Row 256 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To achieve identity initialization for the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$, we initialize $\bm{Q}$ as an all-zero matrix.
fact: According to the paper **"Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning"**, in the Cayley-transform formulation used to initialize the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ at the identity, the matrix initialized as an all-zero matrix is $\bm{Q}$.
target:  $\bm{Q}$.
probe: According to the paper **"Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning"**, in the Cayley-transform formulation used to initialize the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ at the identity, the matrix initialized as an all-zero matrix is

----- Row 257 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To achieve identity initialization for the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$, we initialize $\bm{Q}$ as an all-zero matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", initializing \bm{Q} as an all-zero matrix yields identity initialization.
target:  identity initialization.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", initializing \bm{Q} as an all-zero matrix yields

----- Row 258 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: COFT can be viewed as a combination of two explicit constraints: minimal hyperspherical energy difference and constrained deviation from the pretrained model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the first of COFT's two explicit constraints uses hyperspherical energy difference
target:  hyperspherical energy difference
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the first of COFT's two explicit constraints uses

----- Row 259 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: COFT can be viewed as a combination of two explicit constraints: minimal hyperspherical energy difference and constrained deviation from the pretrained model.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that COFT can be viewed as combining minimal hyperspherical energy difference with an additional explicit constraint, namely constrained deviation from the pretrained model.
target:  constrained deviation from the pretrained model.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that COFT can be viewed as combining minimal hyperspherical energy difference with an additional explicit constraint, namely

----- Row 260 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The second constraint is usually implicitly used by existing finetuning methods, but COFT makes it an explicit one.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", existing finetuning methods typically regard the second constraint in COFT, namely constrained deviation from the pretrained model, as implicitly used
target:  implicitly used
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", existing finetuning methods typically regard the second constraint in COFT, namely constrained deviation from the pretrained model, as

----- Row 261 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The second constraint is usually implicitly used by existing finetuning methods, but COFT makes it an explicit one.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", COFT turns the second constraint, which existing finetuning methods usually use implicitly, into an explicit one.
target:  an explicit one.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", COFT turns the second constraint, which existing finetuning methods usually use implicitly, into

----- Row 262 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite the excellent performance of OFT, we observe that COFT yields even better finetuning stability than OFT due to this explicit deviation constraint.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the method that yields even better finetuning stability than OFT due to the explicit deviation constraint is COFT
target:  COFT
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the method that yields even better finetuning stability than OFT due to the explicit deviation constraint is

----- Row 263 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite the excellent performance of OFT, we observe that COFT yields even better finetuning stability than OFT due to this explicit deviation constraint.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the reason COFT yields even better finetuning stability than OFT is this explicit deviation constraint
target:  this explicit deviation constraint
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the reason COFT yields even better finetuning stability than OFT is

----- Row 264 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With smaller $\epsilon$, the COFT-finetuned model behaves increasingly similar to the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when $\epsilon$ is smaller in COFT, the COFT-finetuned model behaves increasingly similar to the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model.
target:  the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when $\epsilon$ is smaller in COFT, the COFT-finetuned model behaves increasingly similar to

----- Row 265 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With smaller $\epsilon$, the COFT-finetuned model behaves increasingly similar to the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the COFT finetuning experiment where $\epsilon$ controls the flexibility of finetuning, the choice of $\epsilon$ that makes the COFT-finetuned model behave increasingly similar to the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model is smaller $\epsilon$
target:  smaller $\epsilon$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the COFT finetuning experiment where $\epsilon$ controls the flexibility of finetuning, the choice of $\epsilon$ that makes the COFT-finetuned model behave increasingly similar to the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model is

----- Row 266 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We propose a simple extension to the original OFT by additionally learning a magnitude scaling coefficient for each neuron.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors additionally learn for each neuron in their simple extension to the original OFT a magnitude scaling coefficient
target:  a magnitude scaling coefficient
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors additionally learn for each neuron in their simple extension to the original OFT

----- Row 267 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We propose a simple extension to the original OFT by additionally learning a magnitude scaling coefficient for each neuron.
fact: The authors propose a simple extension by additionally learning a magnitude scaling coefficient for each neuron for the original OFT.
target:  the original OFT.
probe: The authors propose a simple extension by additionally learning a magnitude scaling coefficient for each neuron for

----- Row 268 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is motivated by the fact that re-scaling neurons does not change the hyperspherical energy (the magnitude will be normalized out).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the re-scaled OFT setting obtained by additionally learning a magnitude scaling coefficient for each neuron, the quantity that remains unchanged when neurons are re-scaled is the hyperspherical energy.
target:  the hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the re-scaled OFT setting obtained by additionally learning a magnitude scaling coefficient for each neuron, the quantity that remains unchanged when neurons are re-scaled is

----- Row 269 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is motivated by the fact that re-scaling neurons does not change the hyperspherical energy (the magnitude will be normalized out).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", re-scaling neurons does not change the hyperspherical energy in the authors’ re-scaled OFT extension because the magnitude will be normalized out
target:  the magnitude will be normalized out
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", re-scaling neurons does not change the hyperspherical energy in the authors’ re-scaled OFT extension because

----- Row 270 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast to OFT's original forward pass in Eq.~\eqref{eq:oft_general} where only $\bm{R}$ is learnable, we have both the diagonal matrix $\bm{D}$ and the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ learnable.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in OFT’s original forward pass in Eq. \eqref{eq:oft_general}, the learnable matrix is $\bm{R}$.
target:  $\bm{R}$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in OFT’s original forward pass in Eq. \eqref{eq:oft_general}, the learnable matrix is

----- Row 271 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast to OFT's original forward pass in Eq.~\eqref{eq:oft_general} where only $\bm{R}$ is learnable, we have both the diagonal matrix $\bm{D}$ and the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ learnable.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the re-scaled OFT formulation that contrasts with the original OFT forward pass in Eq.~\eqref{eq:oft_general}, the two matrices that are learnable are the diagonal matrix $\bm{D}$ and the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$.
target:  the diagonal matrix $\bm{D}$ and the orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the re-scaled OFT formulation that contrasts with the original OFT forward pass in Eq.~\eqref{eq:oft_general}, the two matrices that are learnable are

----- Row 272 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The re-scaled OFT further improves the flexibility of OFT with a neglectable number of additional parameters.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the re-scaled OFT further improves what aspect of OFT while adding only a negligible number of additional parameters: the flexibility of OFT
target:  the flexibility of OFT
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the re-scaled OFT further improves what aspect of OFT while adding only a negligible number of additional parameters:

----- Row 273 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The re-scaled OFT further improves the flexibility of OFT with a neglectable number of additional parameters.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the re-scaled OFT further improves the flexibility of OFT with a neglectable number of additional parameters.
target:  a neglectable number of additional parameters.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the re-scaled OFT further improves the flexibility of OFT with

----- Row 274 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To compare fairly to LoRA, we only apply OFT to finetune the attention weights in our experiments.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to compare fairly with LoRA, the authors applied OFT only to finetune the attention weights.
target:  the attention weights.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to compare fairly with LoRA, the authors applied OFT only to finetune

----- Row 275 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To compare fairly to LoRA, we only apply OFT to finetune the attention weights in our experiments.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the method the authors compare with fairly by applying OFT only to finetune the attention weights in their experiments is LoRA.
target:  LoRA.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the method the authors compare with fairly by applying OFT only to finetune the attention weights in their experiments is

----- Row 276 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Besides fully connected layers, OFT is also well suited for finetuning convolution layers, because the block-diagonal structure of $\bm{R}$ has interesting interpretations in convolution layers (unlike LoRA).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", besides fully connected layers, OFT is also well suited for finetuning convolution layers.
target:  convolution layers.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", besides fully connected layers, OFT is also well suited for finetuning

----- Row 277 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Besides fully connected layers, OFT is also well suited for finetuning convolution layers, because the block-diagonal structure of $\bm{R}$ has interesting interpretations in convolution layers (unlike LoRA).
fact: The authors state that OFT is also well suited for finetuning convolution layers because the block-diagonal structure of $\bm{R}$ has interesting interpretations in convolution layers
target:  the block-diagonal structure of $\bm{R}$ has interesting interpretations in convolution layers
probe: The authors state that OFT is also well suited for finetuning convolution layers because

----- Row 278 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When we use the same number of blocks as the number of input channels, each block only transforms a unique neuron channel, similar to learning depth-wise convolution kernels~\cite{chollet2017xception}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors apply OFT to finetune convolution layers and use the same number of blocks as the number of input channels, each block transforms a unique neuron channel.
target:  a unique neuron channel.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors apply OFT to finetune convolution layers and use the same number of blocks as the number of input channels, each block transforms

----- Row 279 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When we use the same number of blocks as the number of input channels, each block only transforms a unique neuron channel, similar to learning depth-wise convolution kernels~\cite{chollet2017xception}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors discuss finetuning convolution layers with OFT and set the number of blocks in $\bm{R}$ equal to the number of input channels, each block transforms a unique neuron channel. This setup is described as being similar to learning "depth-wise convolution kernels".
target:  "depth-wise convolution kernels".
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors discuss finetuning convolution layers with OFT and set the number of blocks in $\bm{R}$ equal to the number of input channels, each block transforms a unique neuron channel. This setup is described as being similar to learning

----- Row 280 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When all the blocks in $\bm{R}$ are shared, OFT transforms the neurons with an orthogonal matrix shared across channels.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when all of the blocks in $\bm{R}$ are shared in OFT, the kind of matrix used to transform the neurons across channels is an orthogonal matrix.
target:  an orthogonal matrix.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when all of the blocks in $\bm{R}$ are shared in OFT, the kind of matrix used to transform the neurons across channels is

----- Row 281 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When all the blocks in $\bm{R}$ are shared, OFT transforms the neurons with an orthogonal matrix shared across channels.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when all the blocks in $\bm{R}$ are shared during OFT for finetuning convolution layers, the neurons are transformed by a shared orthogonal matrix across channels.
target:  channels.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when all the blocks in $\bm{R}$ are shared during OFT for finetuning convolution layers, the neurons are transformed by a shared orthogonal matrix across

----- Row 285 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, OFT controls the transform that applies to the pretrained weight matrix to be orthogonal (full-rank), which prevents the transform to destroy the pretraining information.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion comparing OFT with LoRA, making the transform applied to the pretrained weight matrix orthogonal (full-rank) prevents it from destroying the pretraining information.
target:  the pretraining information.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion comparing OFT with LoRA, making the transform applied to the pretrained weight matrix orthogonal (full-rank) prevents it from destroying

----- Row 286 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can rewrite OFT's forward pass as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{z}=(\bm{R}\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{W}^0+(\bm{R}-\bm{I})\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu (\bm{R}-\bm{I})\bm{W}^0$ is analogous to LoRA's low-rank weight update.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors rewrite OFT's forward pass in their connection to LoRA, the expression analogous to LoRA's low-rank weight update is $(\bm{R}-\bm{I})\bm{W}^0$.
target:  $(\bm{R}-\bm{I})\bm{W}^0$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when the authors rewrite OFT's forward pass in their connection to LoRA, the expression analogous to LoRA's low-rank weight update is

----- Row 287 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can rewrite OFT's forward pass as $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{z}=(\bm{R}\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{W}^0+(\bm{R}-\bm{I})\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$ where $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu (\bm{R}-\bm{I})\bm{W}^0$ is analogous to LoRA's low-rank weight update.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT's forward pass can be rewritten in terms of the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ and the orthogonal transform $\bm{R}$ as $\bm{z}=(\bm{R}\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{W}^0+(\bm{R}-\bm{I})\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$
target:  $\bm{z}=(\bm{R}\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}=(\bm{W}^0+(\bm{R}-\bm{I})\bm{W}^0)^\top\bm{x}$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT's forward pass can be rewritten in terms of the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ and the orthogonal transform $\bm{R}$ as

----- Row 288 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Since $\bm{W}^0$ is typically full-rank, OFT also performs low-rank weight update when $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}-\bm{I}$ is low-rank.
fact: In "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," OFT also performs a low-rank weight update, given that $\bm{W}^0$ is typically full-rank, when $\bm{R}-\bm{I}$ is low-rank.
target:  $\bm{R}-\bm{I}$ is low-rank.
probe: In "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," OFT also performs a low-rank weight update, given that $\bm{W}^0$ is typically full-rank, when

----- Row 289 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Since $\bm{W}^0$ is typically full-rank, OFT also performs low-rank weight update when $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{R}-\bm{I}$ is low-rank.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," the pretrained weight matrix described as typically full-rank, making OFT also perform a low-rank weight update when $\bm{R}-\bm{I}$ is low-rank, is $\bm{W}^0$.
target:  $\bm{W}^0$.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning," the pretrained weight matrix described as typically full-rank, making OFT also perform a low-rank weight update when $\bm{R}-\bm{I}$ is low-rank, is

----- Row 290 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Similar to LoRA that has a rank parameter $r'$, OFT has a diagonal block parameter $r$ to reduce the number of trainable parameters.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the rank parameter LoRA uses, as discussed in the comparison with OFT’s diagonal block parameter $r$ for reducing the number of trainable parameters, is $r'$.
target:  $r'$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the rank parameter LoRA uses, as discussed in the comparison with OFT’s diagonal block parameter $r$ for reducing the number of trainable parameters, is

----- Row 291 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Similar to LoRA that has a rank parameter $r'$, OFT has a diagonal block parameter $r$ to reduce the number of trainable parameters.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT has, analogous to LoRA’s rank parameter $r'$, a parameter to reduce the number of trainable parameters: a diagonal block parameter $r$
target:  a diagonal block parameter $r$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT has, analogous to LoRA’s rank parameter $r'$, a parameter to reduce the number of trainable parameters:

----- Row 292 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: LoRA exploits the low-rank structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters, while OFT takes a different route by exploiting the sparsity structure (\emph{i.e.}, block-diagonal orthogonality).
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", LoRA reduces the number of trainable parameters by exploiting the low-rank structure.
target:  the low-rank structure.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", LoRA reduces the number of trainable parameters by exploiting

----- Row 293 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: LoRA exploits the low-rank structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters, while OFT takes a different route by exploiting the sparsity structure (\emph{i.e.}, block-diagonal orthogonality).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT exploits, rather than LoRA's low-rank structure, the sparsity structure.
target:  the sparsity structure.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT exploits, rather than LoRA's low-rank structure,

----- Row 294 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On the other hand, OFT can be viewed as finetuning neurons on a smooth hypersphere manifold, which yields better optimization landscape.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of why OFT converges faster, OFT can be viewed as finetuning neurons on a smooth hypersphere manifold.
target:  a smooth hypersphere manifold.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of why OFT converges faster, OFT can be viewed as finetuning neurons on

----- Row 295 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On the other hand, OFT can be viewed as finetuning neurons on a smooth hypersphere manifold, which yields better optimization landscape.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of why OFT converges faster, viewing OFT as finetuning neurons on a smooth hypersphere manifold yields better optimization landscape.
target:  better optimization landscape.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of why OFT converges faster, viewing OFT as finetuning neurons on a smooth hypersphere manifold yields

----- Row 296 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A key difference to \cite{liu2021orthogonal} is that we do not aim to minimize hyperspherical energy.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the objective the authors say they do not pursue, in contrast to \cite{liu2021orthogonal}, is hyperspherical energy.
target:  hyperspherical energy.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the objective the authors say they do not pursue, in contrast to \cite{liu2021orthogonal}, is

----- Row 297 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The minimum hyperspherical energy means all neurons are uniformly spaced around the hypersphere.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the minimum hyperspherical energy objective implies, in the finetuning discussion, that all neurons are uniformly spaced around the hypersphere.
target:  all neurons are uniformly spaced around the hypersphere.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the minimum hyperspherical energy objective implies, in the finetuning discussion, that

----- Row 298 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The minimum hyperspherical energy means all neurons are uniformly spaced around the hypersphere.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", minimum hyperspherical energy implies that all neurons are arranged around the hypersphere.
target:  around the hypersphere.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", minimum hyperspherical energy implies that all neurons are arranged

----- Row 299 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is not a meaningful objective for finetuning, as it may destroy the pretraining information.
fact: The authors argue that minimizing hyperspherical energy is not a meaningful objective for this process because it may destroy the pretraining information: finetuning
target:  finetuning
probe: The authors argue that minimizing hyperspherical energy is not a meaningful objective for this process because it may destroy the pretraining information:

----- Row 300 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is not a meaningful objective for finetuning, as it may destroy the pretraining information.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors say that minimizing hyperspherical energy is not a meaningful objective for finetuning because it would destroy the pretraining information.
target:  destroy the pretraining information.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors say that minimizing hyperspherical energy is not a meaningful objective for finetuning because it would

----- Row 301 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Standard finetuning is the most flexible method, but it yields poor stability and easily causes model collapse.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the finetuning method described as the most flexible, but also as having poor stability and easily causing model collapse is Standard finetuning.
target:  Standard finetuning.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the finetuning method described as the most flexible, but also as having poor stability and easily causing model collapse is

----- Row 302 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Standard finetuning is the most flexible method, but it yields poor stability and easily causes model collapse.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", standard finetuning is the most flexible method, but it yields poor stability and easily causes model collapse.
target:  model collapse.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", standard finetuning is the most flexible method, but it yields poor stability and easily causes

----- Row 303 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Being surprisingly simple, OFT finds a good balance between flexibility and regularity by preserving the pairwise neuron angles.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT preserves the pairwise neuron angles in order to find a good balance between flexibility and regularity during finetuning the pairwise neuron angles.
target:  the pairwise neuron angles.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT preserves the pairwise neuron angles in order to find a good balance between flexibility and regularity during finetuning

----- Row 304 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Being surprisingly simple, OFT finds a good balance between flexibility and regularity by preserving the pairwise neuron angles.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT balances the two properties by preserving pairwise neuron angles: flexibility and regularity
target:  flexibility and regularity
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT balances the two properties by preserving pairwise neuron angles:

----- Row 305 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The block-diagonal parameterization can also be viewed as a stronger regularization of the orthogonal matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the block-diagonal parameterization in the OFT framework can be viewed as a stronger regularization.
target:  a stronger regularization.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the block-diagonal parameterization in the OFT framework can be viewed as

----- Row 306 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The block-diagonal parameterization can also be viewed as a stronger regularization of the orthogonal matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the block-diagonal parameterization can also be viewed as a stronger regularization of the orthogonal matrix.
target:  the orthogonal matrix.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the block-diagonal parameterization can also be viewed as a stronger regularization of

----- Row 307 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Unlike ControlNet, our OFT framework introduces no additional inference overhead to the finetuned model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", compared with ControlNet, the OFT framework introduces to the finetuned model no additional inference overhead.
target:  no additional inference overhead.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", compared with ControlNet, the OFT framework introduces to the finetuned model

----- Row 308 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the inference stage, we can simply multiply the learned orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ into the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ and obtain an equivalent weight matrix $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", during the inference stage, the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ is multiplied by the learned orthogonal matrix \bm{R}.
target:  the learned orthogonal matrix \bm{R}.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", during the inference stage, the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ is multiplied by

----- Row 309 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the inference stage, we can simply multiply the learned orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ into the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ and obtain an equivalent weight matrix $\thickmuskip=2mu \medmuskip=2mu \bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the inference stage of OFT, the authors obtain the equivalent weight matrix by multiplying the learned orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ into the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$, which is $\bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$
target:  $\bm{W}=\bm{R}\bm{W}^0$
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the inference stage of OFT, the authors obtain the equivalent weight matrix by multiplying the learned orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$ into the pretrained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$, which is

----- Row 310 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the experiment, we use Stable Diffusion v1.5~\cite{rombach2022high} as the pretrained text-to-image model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the pretrained text-to-image model the authors use in the experiment is Stable Diffusion v1.5
target:  Stable Diffusion v1.5
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the pretrained text-to-image model the authors use in the experiment is

----- Row 311 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the experiment, we use Stable Diffusion v1.5~\cite{rombach2022high} as the pretrained text-to-image model.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the general settings of the experiment, Stable Diffusion v1.5 is used as the pretrained text-to-image model.
target:  the pretrained text-to-image model.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the general settings of the experiment, Stable Diffusion v1.5 is used as

----- Row 312 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For controllable generation, we generally follow  ControlNet~\cite{zhang2023adding} and T2I-Adapter~\cite{mou2023t2i}.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for the controllable generation setting in the general experimental setup, the authors generally follow T2I-Adapter in addition to ControlNet.
target:  ControlNet.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for the controllable generation setting in the general experimental setup, the authors generally follow T2I-Adapter in addition to

----- Row 313 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For controllable generation, we generally follow  ControlNet~\cite{zhang2023adding} and T2I-Adapter~\cite{mou2023t2i}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for controllable generation, the authors generally follow the method of ControlNet and T2I-Adapter
target:  T2I-Adapter
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for controllable generation, the authors generally follow the method of ControlNet and

----- Row 314 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To ensure a fair comparison to LoRA, we only apply OFT or COFT to the same layer where LoRA is used.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to ensure a fair comparison, OFT or COFT are only applied to the same layer where the method used is LoRA.
target:  LoRA.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to ensure a fair comparison, OFT or COFT are only applied to the same layer where the method used is

----- Row 315 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To ensure a fair comparison to LoRA, we only apply OFT or COFT to the same layer where LoRA is used.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to ensure a fair comparison to LoRA in the general settings experiment, OFT or COFT are only applied to the same layer.
target:  the same layer.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to ensure a fair comparison to LoRA in the general settings experiment, OFT or COFT are only applied to

----- Row 316 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For DreamBooth and LoRA, we generally follow the original paper and use the best hyperparameter setup.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the two baseline methods for which the authors generally follow the original paper and use the best hyperparameter setup in their finetuning experiments are DreamBooth and LoRA
target:  DreamBooth and LoRA
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the two baseline methods for which the authors generally follow the original paper and use the best hyperparameter setup in their finetuning experiments are

----- Row 317 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For DreamBooth and LoRA, we generally follow the original paper and use the best hyperparameter setup.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the setup the authors use for the DreamBooth and LoRA baselines while generally following the original papers is the best hyperparameter setup.
target:  the best hyperparameter setup.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the setup the authors use for the DreamBooth and LoRA baselines while generally following the original papers is

----- Row 318 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We first evaluate the finetuning stability and the convergence speed for DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT and COFT.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the other aspect the authors first evaluate for DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT, and COFT in addition to convergence speed is the finetuning stability
target:  the finetuning stability
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the other aspect the authors first evaluate for DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT, and COFT in addition to convergence speed is

----- Row 319 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We first evaluate the finetuning stability and the convergence speed for DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT and COFT.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the first thing the authors evaluate for DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT, and COFT in their finetuning experiments besides finetuning stability is the convergence speed.
target:  the convergence speed.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the first thing the authors evaluate for DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT, and COFT in their finetuning experiments besides finetuning stability is

----- Row 320 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can observe that both COFT and OFT are able to finetune the diffusion model quite stably.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the finetuning stability and convergence evaluation, the two methods observed to be able to finetune the diffusion model quite stably were COFT and OFT.
target:  COFT and OFT.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the finetuning stability and convergence evaluation, the two methods observed to be able to finetune the diffusion model quite stably were

----- Row 321 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We can observe that both COFT and OFT are able to finetune the diffusion model quite stably.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", both COFT and OFT finetune quite stably during the finetuning stability and convergence evaluation of the diffusion model.
target:  the diffusion model.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", both COFT and OFT finetune quite stably during the finetuning stability and convergence evaluation of

----- Row 322 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After 400 iterations, both DreamBooth and OFT variants achieve good control, while LoRA fails to preserve the subject identity.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the finetuning stability and convergence evaluation comparing several methods, the approaches that achieve good control after 400 iterations are DreamBooth and OFT variants.
target:  DreamBooth and OFT variants.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the finetuning stability and convergence evaluation comparing several methods, the approaches that achieve good control after 400 iterations are

----- Row 323 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After 400 iterations, both DreamBooth and OFT variants achieve good control, while LoRA fails to preserve the subject identity.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the finetuning stability and convergence experiments comparing DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT, and COFT, LoRA fails to preserve after 400 iterations the subject identity.
target:  the subject identity.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the finetuning stability and convergence experiments comparing DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT, and COFT, LoRA fails to preserve after 400 iterations

----- Row 324 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After 2000 iterations, DreamBooth starts to generate collapsed images, and LoRA fails to generate yellow shirt (and instead generates yellow fur).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation convergence comparison after 2000 finetuning iterations, DreamBooth starts to generate collapsed images.
target:  collapsed images.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation convergence comparison after 2000 finetuning iterations, DreamBooth starts to generate

----- Row 325 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After 2000 iterations, DreamBooth starts to generate collapsed images, and LoRA fails to generate yellow shirt (and instead generates yellow fur).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation experiment comparing DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT, and COFT, after 2000 finetuning iterations, LoRA fails to generate the yellow shirt.
target:  yellow shirt.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation experiment comparing DreamBooth, LoRA, OFT, and COFT, after 2000 finetuning iterations, LoRA fails to generate the

----- Row 326 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, both OFT and COFT are still able to achieve stable and consistent control over the generated image.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", after 2000 finetuning iterations in the subject-driven generation experiments, the methods that still achieve stable and consistent control over the generated image are OFT and COFT
target:  OFT and COFT
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", after 2000 finetuning iterations in the subject-driven generation experiments, the methods that still achieve stable and consistent control over the generated image are

----- Row 327 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, both OFT and COFT are still able to achieve stable and consistent control over the generated image.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", after 2000 finetuning iterations in the subject-driven generation experiment, OFT and COFT still maintain stable and consistent control.
target:  stable and consistent control.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", after 2000 finetuning iterations in the subject-driven generation experiment, OFT and COFT still maintain

----- Row 328 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These results validate the fast yet stable convergence of our OFT framework in subject-driven generation.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the results validate that the OFT framework in subject-driven generation achieves fast yet stable convergence
target:  fast yet stable convergence
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the results validate that the OFT framework in subject-driven generation achieves

----- Row 329 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These results validate the fast yet stable convergence of our OFT framework in subject-driven generation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation experiment comparing DreamBooth, LoRA, the proposed method, and COFT after 2000 finetuning iterations, the results validate our OFT framework
target:  our OFT framework
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the subject-driven generation experiment comparing DreamBooth, LoRA, the proposed method, and COFT after 2000 finetuning iterations, the results validate

----- Row 330 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For both OFT and COFT, we can directly set a relatively large iteration number without carefully tuning it.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the two methods that can directly use a relatively large finetuning iteration number without carefully tuning it in the subject-driven generation experiments are OFT and COFT.
target:  OFT and COFT.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the two methods that can directly use a relatively large finetuning iteration number without carefully tuning it in the subject-driven generation experiments are

----- Row 331 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For both OFT and COFT, we can directly set a relatively large iteration number without carefully tuning it.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the thing that can be directly set to a relatively large value for both OFT and COFT without carefully tuning it is iteration number.
target:  iteration number.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the thing that can be directly set to a relatively large value for both OFT and COFT without carefully tuning it is

----- Row 332 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For COFT with a proper $\epsilon$, both the learning rate and the iteration number become effortless to set.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for COFT in subject-driven generation, the kind of $\epsilon$ that makes both the learning rate and the iteration number effortless to set is proper $\epsilon$.
target:  proper $\epsilon$.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for COFT in subject-driven generation, the kind of $\epsilon$ that makes both the learning rate and the iteration number effortless to set is

----- Row 333 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For COFT with a proper $\epsilon$, both the learning rate and the iteration number become effortless to set.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", with COFT and a proper $\epsilon$, the hyperparameter besides the learning rate that becomes effortless to set is the iteration number
target:  the iteration number
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", with COFT and a proper $\epsilon$, the hyperparameter besides the learning rate that becomes effortless to set is

----- Row 334 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following \cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}, we conduct a quantitative comparison to evaluate subject fidelity (DINO~\cite{caron2021emerging}, CLIP-I~\cite{radford2021learning}), text prompt fidelity (CLIP-T~\cite{radford2021learning}) and sample diversity (LPIPS~\cite{zhang2018unreasonable}).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the metrics used to evaluate subject fidelity in the quantitative comparison following Ruiz et al. (DreamBooth), alongside text prompt fidelity and sample diversity, are DINO~\cite{caron2021emerging}, CLIP-I~\cite{radford2021learning}.
target:  DINO~\cite{caron2021emerging}, CLIP-I~\cite{radford2021learning}.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the metrics used to evaluate subject fidelity in the quantitative comparison following Ruiz et al. (DreamBooth), alongside text prompt fidelity and sample diversity, are

----- Row 335 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following \cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}, we conduct a quantitative comparison to evaluate subject fidelity (DINO~\cite{caron2021emerging}, CLIP-I~\cite{radford2021learning}), text prompt fidelity (CLIP-T~\cite{radford2021learning}) and sample diversity (LPIPS~\cite{zhang2018unreasonable}).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the metric the authors use to evaluate text prompt fidelity in their quantitative comparison following Ruiz et al. DreamBooth, alongside subject fidelity metrics such as DINO and CLIP-I and the sample diversity metric LPIPS, is CLIP-T~\cite{radford2021learning}
target:  CLIP-T~\cite{radford2021learning}
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the metric the authors use to evaluate text prompt fidelity in their quantitative comparison following Ruiz et al. DreamBooth, alongside subject fidelity metrics such as DINO and CLIP-I and the sample diversity metric LPIPS, is

----- Row 336 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following \cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}, we conduct a quantitative comparison to evaluate subject fidelity (DINO~\cite{caron2021emerging}, CLIP-I~\cite{radford2021learning}), text prompt fidelity (CLIP-T~\cite{radford2021learning}) and sample diversity (LPIPS~\cite{zhang2018unreasonable}).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the quantitative comparison conducted following \cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}, the metric the authors use to evaluate sample diversity is LPIPS~\cite{zhang2018unreasonable}.
target:  LPIPS~\cite{zhang2018unreasonable}.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the quantitative comparison conducted following \cite{ruiz2023dreambooth}, the metric the authors use to evaluate sample diversity is

----- Row 337 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: CLIP-I computes the average pairwise cosine similarity of CLIP embeddings between generated and real images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the quantitative comparison used to evaluate subject fidelity, CLIP-I computes between generated and real images the average pairwise cosine similarity of CLIP embeddings.
target:  the average pairwise cosine similarity of CLIP embeddings.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the quantitative comparison used to evaluate subject fidelity, CLIP-I computes between generated and real images

----- Row 338 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: CLIP-I computes the average pairwise cosine similarity of CLIP embeddings between generated and real images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the quantitative comparison used to evaluate subject fidelity, CLIP-I computes the average pairwise cosine similarity of CLIP embeddings between generated and real images
target:  generated and real images
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the quantitative comparison used to evaluate subject fidelity, CLIP-I computes the average pairwise cosine similarity of CLIP embeddings between

----- Row 339 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: CLIP-T is the average cosine similarity of CLIP embeddings between text prompt and generated images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the quantitative comparison used to evaluate text prompt fidelity, CLIP-T measures the similarity between the text prompt and the generated images by averaging cosine similarity.
target:  cosine similarity.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the quantitative comparison used to evaluate text prompt fidelity, CLIP-T measures the similarity between the text prompt and the generated images by averaging

----- Row 340 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: CLIP-T is the average cosine similarity of CLIP embeddings between text prompt and generated images.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", CLIP-T is defined as the average cosine similarity between a text prompt and generated images computed using CLIP embeddings.
target:  CLIP embeddings.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", CLIP-T is defined as the average cosine similarity between a text prompt and generated images computed using

----- Row 341 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also evaluate average LPIPS cosine similarity between generated images of the same subject with the same text prompt.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when evaluating sample diversity for generated images of the same subject with the same text prompt, the authors use the similarity metric average LPIPS cosine similarity.
target:  average LPIPS cosine similarity.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when evaluating sample diversity for generated images of the same subject with the same text prompt, the authors use the similarity metric

----- Row 342 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also evaluate average LPIPS cosine similarity between generated images of the same subject with the same text prompt.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when evaluating sample diversity using average LPIPS cosine similarity, the similarity is computed between generated images of the same subject and the same text prompt.
target:  the same text prompt.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when evaluating sample diversity using average LPIPS cosine similarity, the similarity is computed between generated images of the same subject and

----- Row 343 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For each method, we repeatedly finetune the same pretrained model with 30 different random seeds to minimize randomness.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when evaluating each method by repeatedly finetuning the same pretrained model to minimize randomness, the authors use 30 different random seeds.
target:  30 different random seeds.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when evaluating each method by repeatedly finetuning the same pretrained model to minimize randomness, the authors use

----- Row 344 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For each method, we repeatedly finetune the same pretrained model with 30 different random seeds to minimize randomness.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for each method in the subject-driven generation experiments, the authors repeatedly finetune the following with 30 different random seeds to minimize randomness: the same pretrained model
target:  the same pretrained model
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for each method in the subject-driven generation experiments, the authors repeatedly finetune the following with 30 different random seeds to minimize randomness:

----- Row 345 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The results show that our OFT framework not only achieves better convergence and stability, but also yields consistently better final performance.
fact: According to the reported results in the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", beyond better convergence, the OFT framework also achieves stability.
target:  stability.
probe: According to the reported results in the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", beyond better convergence, the OFT framework also achieves

----- Row 346 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The results show that our OFT framework not only achieves better convergence and stability, but also yields consistently better final performance.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the comparison where each method was repeatedly finetuned on the same pretrained model with 30 different random seeds, the OFT framework yields consistently better final performance.
target:  final performance.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the comparison where each method was repeatedly finetuned on the same pretrained model with 30 different random seeds, the OFT framework yields consistently better

----- Row 347 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For a fair comparison, all the examples are generated from the same finetuned model using each method, so no text prompt will be separately optimized for its final results.
fact: For the fair qualitative comparison in the subject-driven generation examples, all of the images are generated from the same finetuned model.
target:  finetuned model.
probe: For the fair qualitative comparison in the subject-driven generation examples, all of the images are generated from the same

----- Row 348 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For a fair comparison, all the examples are generated from the same finetuned model using each method, so no text prompt will be separately optimized for its final results.
fact: In the qualitative comparison for subject-driven generation, all examples are generated from the same finetuned model using each method, and the item not separately optimized for the final results is the text prompt.
target:  text prompt.
probe: In the qualitative comparison for subject-driven generation, all examples are generated from the same finetuned model using each method, and the item not separately optimized for the final results is the

----- Row 349 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the meantime, both OFT and COFT have much more accurate control using text prompts, while DreamBooth, despite its preservation of subject identity, often fails to generate the image following the text prompt (\emph{e.g.}, the first row of the bowl example).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison with DreamBooth and LoRA, the methods described as having much more accurate control when using text prompts are OFT and COFT.
target:  OFT and COFT.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison with DreamBooth and LoRA, the methods described as having much more accurate control when using text prompts are

----- Row 350 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the meantime, both OFT and COFT have much more accurate control using text prompts, while DreamBooth, despite its preservation of subject identity, often fails to generate the image following the text prompt (\emph{e.g.}, the first row of the bowl example).
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the method that preserves subject identity but often fails to generate the image following the text prompt, as illustrated by the first row of the bowl example, is DreamBooth
target:  DreamBooth
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the method that preserves subject identity but often fails to generate the image following the text prompt, as illustrated by the first row of the bowl example, is

----- Row 351 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the meantime, both OFT and COFT have much more accurate control using text prompts, while DreamBooth, despite its preservation of subject identity, often fails to generate the image following the text prompt (\emph{e.g.}, the first row of the bowl example).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison of OFT, COFT, LoRA, and DreamBooth, DreamBooth often preserves subject identity but fails to follow the text prompt.
target:  the text prompt.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison of OFT, COFT, LoRA, and DreamBooth, DreamBooth often preserves subject identity but fails to follow

----- Row 352 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The qualitative comparison demonstrates that our OFT framework achieves better controllability and subject preservation at the same time.
fact: The qualitative comparison demonstrates that the OFT framework achieves better results while preserving the subject, in terms of controllability
target:  controllability
probe: The qualitative comparison demonstrates that the OFT framework achieves better results while preserving the subject, in terms of

----- Row 353 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The qualitative comparison demonstrates that our OFT framework achieves better controllability and subject preservation at the same time.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the qualitative comparison demonstrates that the OFT framework achieves better controllability and at the same time subject preservation.
target:  subject preservation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the qualitative comparison demonstrates that the OFT framework achieves better controllability and at the same time

----- Row 354 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, the number of iterations is not sensitive in OFT, so OFT performs well even with a large number of iterations, while neither DreamBooth nor LoRA can.
fact: The method described as not being sensitive to the number of iterations and as performing well even with a large number of iterations is OFT.
target:  OFT.
probe: The method described as not being sensitive to the number of iterations and as performing well even with a large number of iterations is

----- Row 355 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, the number of iterations is not sensitive in OFT, so OFT performs well even with a large number of iterations, while neither DreamBooth nor LoRA can.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT’s performance is described as not being sensitive to the number of iterations and as still performing well with a large number of iterations.
target:  a large number of iterations.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT’s performance is described as not being sensitive to the number of iterations and as still performing well with

----- Row 356 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We use ControlNet~\cite{zhang2023adding}, T2I-Adapter~\cite{mou2023t2i} and LoRA~\cite{hulora2022} as the baselines.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the model used as a baseline together with T2I-Adapter and LoRA when finetuning Stable Diffusion v1.5 on the Canny edge-to-image, segmentation map-to-image, and landmark-to-face tasks is ControlNet
target:  ControlNet
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the model used as a baseline together with T2I-Adapter and LoRA when finetuning Stable Diffusion v1.5 on the Canny edge-to-image, segmentation map-to-image, and landmark-to-face tasks is

----- Row 357 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We use ControlNet~\cite{zhang2023adding}, T2I-Adapter~\cite{mou2023t2i} and LoRA~\cite{hulora2022} as the baselines.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the settings section where the authors list the baselines for the three controllable generation tasks, the adapter-based method used alongside ControlNet and LoRA as a baseline is T2I-Adapter.
target:  T2I-Adapter.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the settings section where the authors list the baselines for the three controllable generation tasks, the adapter-based method used alongside ControlNet and LoRA as a baseline is

----- Row 358 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We consider three challenging controllable generation tasks in the main paper: Canny edge to image~(C2I) on the COCO dataset~\cite{lin2014microsoft}, segmentation map to image~(S2I) on the ADE20K dataset~\cite{zhou2017scene} and landmark to face~(L2F) on the CelebA-HQ dataset~\cite{karras2018progressive,xia2021tedigan}.
fact: On the COCO dataset, one of the three challenging controllable generation tasks considered in the main paper is Canny edge to image.
target:  Canny edge to image.
probe: On the COCO dataset, one of the three challenging controllable generation tasks considered in the main paper is

----- Row 359 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We consider three challenging controllable generation tasks in the main paper: Canny edge to image~(C2I) on the COCO dataset~\cite{lin2014microsoft}, segmentation map to image~(S2I) on the ADE20K dataset~\cite{zhou2017scene} and landmark to face~(L2F) on the CelebA-HQ dataset~\cite{karras2018progressive,xia2021tedigan}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the controllable generation task considered on the ADE20K dataset in the main paper is segmentation map to image
target:  segmentation map to image
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the controllable generation task considered on the ADE20K dataset in the main paper is

----- Row 360 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We consider three challenging controllable generation tasks in the main paper: Canny edge to image~(C2I) on the COCO dataset~\cite{lin2014microsoft}, segmentation map to image~(S2I) on the ADE20K dataset~\cite{zhou2017scene} and landmark to face~(L2F) on the CelebA-HQ dataset~\cite{karras2018progressive,xia2021tedigan}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the controllable generation task considered on the CelebA-HQ dataset in the main paper is landmark to face
target:  landmark to face
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the controllable generation task considered on the CelebA-HQ dataset in the main paper is

----- Row 361 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: All the methods are used to finetune Stable Diffusion~(SD) v1.5 on these three datasets for 20 epochs.
fact: ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, and LoRA all finetune on the three controllable generation datasets for 20 epochs using Stable Diffusion~(SD) v1.5
target:  Stable Diffusion~(SD) v1.5
probe: ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, and LoRA all finetune on the three controllable generation datasets for 20 epochs using

----- Row 362 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: All the methods are used to finetune Stable Diffusion~(SD) v1.5 on these three datasets for 20 epochs.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, LoRA, and COFT are used to finetune Stable Diffusion (SD) v1.5 on the three controllable generation datasets, namely Canny edge to image (C2I) on COCO, segmentation map to image (S2I) on ADE20K, and landmark to face (L2F) on CelebA-HQ, for 20 epochs.
target:  20 epochs.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, LoRA, and COFT are used to finetune Stable Diffusion (SD) v1.5 on the three controllable generation datasets, namely Canny edge to image (C2I) on COCO, segmentation map to image (S2I) on ADE20K, and landmark to face (L2F) on CelebA-HQ, for

----- Row 363 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We evaluate the convergence speed of ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, LoRA and COFT on the L2F task.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the control task on which the authors evaluate the convergence speed of ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, LoRA, and COFT is L2F task.
target:  L2F task.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the control task on which the authors evaluate the convergence speed of ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, LoRA, and COFT is

----- Row 365 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically for the evaluation metric, we compute the mean $\ell_2$ distance between control face landmarks and predicted face landmarks.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the convergence evaluation on the L2F task comparing ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, LoRA, and COFT, the evaluation metric the authors compute to measure the error between control face landmarks and predicted face landmarks is the mean $\ell_2$ distance.
target:  the mean $\ell_2$ distance.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the convergence evaluation on the L2F task comparing ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, LoRA, and COFT, the evaluation metric the authors compute to measure the error between control face landmarks and predicted face landmarks is

----- Row 366 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically for the evaluation metric, we compute the mean $\ell_2$ distance between control face landmarks and predicted face landmarks.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the convergence evaluation on the L2F task, the authors compute the mean $\ell_2$ distance between control face landmarks and predicted face landmarks.
target:  predicted face landmarks.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the convergence evaluation on the L2F task, the authors compute the mean $\ell_2$ distance between control face landmarks and

----- Row 367 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It takes 20 epochs for LoRA to converge to the performance of our OFT framework at the 8-th epoch.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the evaluation of face landmark error convergence, the number of epochs it takes for LoRA to converge to the performance of the OFT framework at the 8-th epoch is 20 epochs.
target:  20 epochs.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the evaluation of face landmark error convergence, the number of epochs it takes for LoRA to converge to the performance of the OFT framework at the 8-th epoch is

----- Row 368 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It takes 20 epochs for LoRA to converge to the performance of our OFT framework at the 8-th epoch.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the face-landmark convergence evaluation comparing LoRA with the OFT framework, LoRA takes 20 epochs to reach the same performance when the OFT framework is at the 8-th epoch.
target:  the 8-th epoch.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the face-landmark convergence evaluation comparing LoRA with the OFT framework, LoRA takes 20 epochs to reach the same performance when the OFT framework is at

----- Row 369 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We note that OFT and COFT use a similar number of trainable parameters to LoRA (much fewer than ControlNet), while being much more efficient to converge than existing methods.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT and COFT use a similar number of trainable parameters to the method called LoRA.
target:  LoRA.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT and COFT use a similar number of trainable parameters to the method called

----- Row 370 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We note that OFT and COFT use a similar number of trainable parameters to LoRA (much fewer than ControlNet), while being much more efficient to converge than existing methods.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT and COFT use a similar number of trainable parameters to LoRA but much fewer trainable parameters than ControlNet.
target:  ControlNet.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT and COFT use a similar number of trainable parameters to LoRA but much fewer trainable parameters than

----- Row 371 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We note that OFT and COFT use a similar number of trainable parameters to LoRA (much fewer than ControlNet), while being much more efficient to converge than existing methods.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the comparison of trainable parameters and convergence speed for the face landmark error experiment, OFT and COFT are described as being much more efficient to converge than existing methods.
target:  existing methods.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the comparison of trainable parameters and convergence speed for the face landmark error experiment, OFT and COFT are described as being much more efficient to converge than

----- Row 372 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For qualitative results, we focus on comparing OFT, COFT and ControlNet, because ControlNet achieves the closest landmark error to ours.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for the qualitative results comparing OFT against other methods, the two methods the authors focus on comparing alongside OFT are COFT and ControlNet.
target:  COFT and ControlNet.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", for the qualitative results comparing OFT against other methods, the two methods the authors focus on comparing alongside OFT are

----- Row 373 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For qualitative results, we focus on comparing OFT, COFT and ControlNet, because ControlNet achieves the closest landmark error to ours.
fact: In the qualitative results for the face-pose control experiment, the authors focus on those three methods because ControlNet achieves the closest landmark error to ours
target:  ControlNet achieves the closest landmark error to ours
probe: In the qualitative results for the face-pose control experiment, the authors focus on those three methods because

----- Row 374 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast to our stable and smooth convergence, the controllability in ControlNet suddenly emerges after the 8-th epoch, which perfectly matches the sudden convergence phenomenon observed in \cite{zhang2023adding}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison of face convergence results using only 5% of the ADE20K dataset, the epoch after which controllability in ControlNet suddenly emerges, in contrast to the stable and smooth convergence of OFT and COFT, is the 8-th epoch.
target:  the 8-th epoch.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison of face convergence results using only 5% of the ADE20K dataset, the epoch after which controllability in ControlNet suddenly emerges, in contrast to the stable and smooth convergence of OFT and COFT, is

----- Row 375 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast to our stable and smooth convergence, the controllability in ControlNet suddenly emerges after the 8-th epoch, which perfectly matches the sudden convergence phenomenon observed in \cite{zhang2023adding}.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the phenomenon observed in \cite{zhang2023adding} that is said to be perfectly matched by the fact that controllability in ControlNet suddenly emerges after the 8-th epoch is the sudden convergence phenomenon
target:  the sudden convergence phenomenon
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the phenomenon observed in \cite{zhang2023adding} that is said to be perfectly matched by the fact that controllability in ControlNet suddenly emerges after the 8-th epoch is

----- Row 376 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Such a convergence stability makes our OFT framework much easier to use in practice, since the training dynamics of OFT is far more smooth and predictable.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the property of OFT’s training dynamics that makes the framework much easier to use in practice is convergence stability.
target:  convergence stability.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the property of OFT’s training dynamics that makes the framework much easier to use in practice is

----- Row 377 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Such a convergence stability makes our OFT framework much easier to use in practice, since the training dynamics of OFT is far more smooth and predictable.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors say that the convergence stability of OFT makes their framework much easier to use in practice because the training dynamics of OFT is far more smooth and predictable.
target:  the training dynamics of OFT is far more smooth and predictable.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors say that the convergence stability of OFT makes their framework much easier to use in practice because

----- Row 378 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We introduce a control consistency metric to evaluate the performance of controllable generation.
fact: The authors of "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" introduce a metric to evaluate the performance of controllable generation, namely a control consistency metric.
target:  a control consistency metric.
probe: The authors of "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" introduce a metric to evaluate the performance of controllable generation, namely

----- Row 379 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We introduce a control consistency metric to evaluate the performance of controllable generation.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the control consistency metric is introduced to evaluate the performance of controllable generation.
target:  controllable generation.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the control consistency metric is introduced to evaluate the performance of

----- Row 380 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The basic idea is to compute the control signal from the generated image and then compare it with the original input control signal.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when introducing the control consistency metric to evaluate controllable generation, the quantity computed from the generated image before being compared with the original input is the control signal.
target:  the control signal.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when introducing the control consistency metric to evaluate controllable generation, the quantity computed from the generated image before being compared with the original input is

----- Row 381 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The basic idea is to compute the control signal from the generated image and then compare it with the original input control signal.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when introducing the control consistency metric for evaluating controllable generation, the authors compute the control signal from the generated image and compare it with the original input control signal
target:  the original input control signal
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when introducing the control consistency metric for evaluating controllable generation, the authors compute the control signal from the generated image and compare it with

----- Row 382 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For the L2F task, we compute the mean $\ell_2$ distance between control landmarks and predicted landmarks.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the metric the authors use for the L2F task to compare control landmarks with predicted landmarks is the mean $\ell_2$ distance.
target:  the mean $\ell_2$ distance.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the metric the authors use for the L2F task to compare control landmarks with predicted landmarks is

----- Row 383 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For the L2F task, we compute the mean $\ell_2$ distance between control landmarks and predicted landmarks.
fact: According to the paper **"Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning"**, in the evaluation of the L2F task for controllable generation, the authors compute the mean $\ell_2$ distance between control landmarks and predicted landmarks.
target:  predicted landmarks.
probe: According to the paper **"Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning"**, in the evaluation of the L2F task for controllable generation, the authors compute the mean $\ell_2$ distance between control landmarks and

----- Row 384 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We observe that the adapter-based approaches (\emph{e.g.}, T2I-Adapter and ControlNet) converge slowly and also yield worse final results.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kinds of approaches that the authors observe converge slowly and also yield worse final results are adapter-based approaches.
target:  adapter-based approaches.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kinds of approaches that the authors observe converge slowly and also yield worse final results are

----- Row 385 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We observe that the adapter-based approaches (\emph{e.g.}, T2I-Adapter and ControlNet) converge slowly and also yield worse final results.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the adapter-based approaches cited as examples of methods that converge slowly and yield worse final results are T2I-Adapter and ControlNet
target:  T2I-Adapter and ControlNet
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the adapter-based approaches cited as examples of methods that converge slowly and yield worse final results are

----- Row 386 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Compared to ControlNet, LoRA performs better in the S2I task and worse in the C2I and L2F tasks.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the comparison between ControlNet and LoRA on the control generation tasks, LoRA performs better in the task S2I.
target:  S2I.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the comparison between ControlNet and LoRA on the control generation tasks, LoRA performs better in the task

----- Row 387 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Compared to ControlNet, LoRA performs better in the S2I task and worse in the C2I and L2F tasks.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Table~\ref{table:control_gen} shows that LoRA performs better than ControlNet on the S2I task but worse on C2I and L2F.
target:  C2I and L2F.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", Table~\ref{table:control_gen} shows that LoRA performs better than ControlNet on the S2I task but worse on

----- Row 388 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In general, we find that the performance ceiling of LoRA is relatively low, even if we have carefully tuned its hyperparameters.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors characterize LoRA's performance ceiling in their comparison of controllable generation methods, even after careful hyperparameter tuning, as relatively low.
target:  relatively low.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors characterize LoRA's performance ceiling in their comparison of controllable generation methods, even after careful hyperparameter tuning, as

----- Row 389 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In general, we find that the performance ceiling of LoRA is relatively low, even if we have carefully tuned its hyperparameters.
fact: When discussing LoRA's relatively low performance ceiling, the authors said they had carefully tuned its hyperparameters.
target:  its hyperparameters.
probe: When discussing LoRA's relatively low performance ceiling, the authors said they had carefully tuned

----- Row 390 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As a comparison, the performance of our OFT framework has not yet saturated, since we empirically find that it still gets better as the number of trainable parameters gets large.
fact: The framework the authors say has not yet saturated in performance because it continues to improve as the number of trainable parameters increases is our OFT framework.
target:  our OFT framework.
probe: The framework the authors say has not yet saturated in performance because it continues to improve as the number of trainable parameters increases is

----- Row 391 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As a comparison, the performance of our OFT framework has not yet saturated, since we empirically find that it still gets better as the number of trainable parameters gets large.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when comparing the OFT framework to methods such as LoRA, ControlNet, and T2I-Adapter in controllable generation, the quantity that the authors empirically find can be increased so that OFT continues to improve rather than saturate is the number of trainable parameters.
target:  the number of trainable parameters.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", when comparing the OFT framework to methods such as LoRA, ControlNet, and T2I-Adapter in controllable generation, the quantity that the authors empirically find can be increased so that OFT continues to improve rather than saturate is

----- Row 392 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We emphasize that our quantitative evaluation in controllable generation is one of our novel contributions, since it can accurately evaluate the control performance of the finetuned models (up to the accuracy of the off-the-shelf segmentation/detection model).
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", one of the authors' novel contributions to controllable generation is our quantitative evaluation
target:  our quantitative evaluation
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", one of the authors' novel contributions to controllable generation is

----- Row 393 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We emphasize that our quantitative evaluation in controllable generation is one of our novel contributions, since it can accurately evaluate the control performance of the finetuned models (up to the accuracy of the off-the-shelf segmentation/detection model).
fact: In controllable generation, the authors' quantitative evaluation accurately measures control performance, up to the accuracy of the off-the-shelf segmentation/detection model, for the finetuned models.
target:  the finetuned models.
probe: In controllable generation, the authors' quantitative evaluation accurately measures control performance, up to the accuracy of the off-the-shelf segmentation/detection model, for

----- Row 394 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also qualitatively compare OFT and COFT to current state-of-the-art methods, including ControlNet, T2I-Adapter and LoRA.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the methods that are qualitatively compared to current state-of-the-art methods, including ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, and LoRA, are OFT and COFT.
target:  OFT and COFT.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the methods that are qualitatively compared to current state-of-the-art methods, including ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, and LoRA, are

----- Row 395 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also qualitatively compare OFT and COFT to current state-of-the-art methods, including ControlNet, T2I-Adapter and LoRA.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the current state-of-the-art method included in the qualitative comparison together with ControlNet and LoRA is T2I-Adapter.
target:  T2I-Adapter.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the current state-of-the-art method included in the qualitative comparison together with ControlNet and LoRA is

----- Row 396 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the S2I task, we can see that LoRA completely fails to generate images following the input segmentation map, while ControlNet, OFT and COFT can well control the generated images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison of OFT and COFT with ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, and another baseline, the method that completely fails to generate images following the input segmentation map in the S2I task is LoRA.
target:  LoRA.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison of OFT and COFT with ControlNet, T2I-Adapter, and another baseline, the method that completely fails to generate images following the input segmentation map in the S2I task is

----- Row 397 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the S2I task, we can see that LoRA completely fails to generate images following the input segmentation map, while ControlNet, OFT and COFT can well control the generated images.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison on the S2I task with an input segmentation map, the methods reported to control the generated images well are ControlNet, OFT and COFT
target:  ControlNet, OFT and COFT
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison on the S2I task with an input segmentation map, the methods reported to control the generated images well are

----- Row 398 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast to ControlNet, both OFT and COFT are able to generate high-fidelity images with more vivid details and more reasonable geometric structures with far less model parameters.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the image-control results, both OFT and COFT are able to generate, against ControlNet and with far fewer model parameters, high-fidelity images.
target:  high-fidelity images.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the image-control results, both OFT and COFT are able to generate, against ControlNet and with far fewer model parameters,

----- Row 400 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the C2I task, both OFT and COFT are able to hallucinate semantically similar images based on a rough Canny edges, while T2I-Adapter and LoRA perform much worse.
fact: In the C2I task, OFT and COFT are able to hallucinate based on rough Canny edges, whereas T2I-Adapter and LoRA perform much worse and produce semantically similar images
target:  semantically similar images
probe: In the C2I task, OFT and COFT are able to hallucinate based on rough Canny edges, whereas T2I-Adapter and LoRA perform much worse and produce

----- Row 402 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the C2I task, both OFT and COFT are able to hallucinate semantically similar images based on a rough Canny edges, while T2I-Adapter and LoRA perform much worse.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the C2I task where the models hallucinate semantically similar images from rough Canny edges, the methods that perform much worse than OFT and COFT are T2I-Adapter and LoRA.
target:  T2I-Adapter and LoRA.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the C2I task where the models hallucinate semantically similar images from rough Canny edges, the methods that perform much worse than OFT and COFT are

----- Row 403 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the L2F task, our method produces the most accurate pose control for the generated faces even under challenging face poses.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the L2F task, the method most accurately produces the generated faces' pose control.
target:  pose control.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the L2F task, the method most accurately produces the generated faces'

----- Row 404 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the L2F task, our method produces the most accurate pose control for the generated faces even under challenging face poses.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the L2F task, the authors’ method produces the most accurate pose control for the generated faces under challenging face poses.
target:  challenging face poses.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the L2F task, the authors’ method produces the most accurate pose control for the generated faces under

----- Row 405 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In all three control tasks, we show that both OFT and COFT produce qualitatively better images than the state-of-the-art baselines, demonstrating the effectiveness of our OFT framework in controllable generation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison across all three control tasks, the methods reported to produce qualitatively better images than the state-of-the-art baselines are OFT and COFT.
target:  OFT and COFT.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the qualitative comparison across all three control tasks, the methods reported to produce qualitatively better images than the state-of-the-art baselines are

----- Row 406 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In all three control tasks, we show that both OFT and COFT produce qualitatively better images than the state-of-the-art baselines, demonstrating the effectiveness of our OFT framework in controllable generation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that in all three control tasks, both proposed methods produce qualitatively better images than the state-of-the-art baselines, which demonstrates the effectiveness in controllable generation of our OFT framework
target:  our OFT framework
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that in all three control tasks, both proposed methods produce qualitatively better images than the state-of-the-art baselines, which demonstrates the effectiveness in controllable generation of

----- Row 407 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Motivated by the observation that angular information among neurons crucially determines visual semantics, we propose a simple yet effective finetuning method – orthogonal finetuning for controlling text-to-image diffusion models.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of information among neurons that is observed to crucially determine visual semantics is angular information.
target:  angular information.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the kind of information among neurons that is observed to crucially determine visual semantics is

----- Row 408 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Motivated by the observation that angular information among neurons crucially determines visual semantics, we propose a simple yet effective finetuning method – orthogonal finetuning for controlling text-to-image diffusion models.
fact: According to the paper, the simple yet effective finetuning method the authors propose for controlling text-to-image diffusion models is orthogonal finetuning.
target:  orthogonal finetuning.
probe: According to the paper, the simple yet effective finetuning method the authors propose for controlling text-to-image diffusion models is

----- Row 409 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we target two text-to-image applications: subject-driven generation and controllable generation.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that their orthogonal finetuning method targets two text-to-image applications, one of which is subject-driven generation.
target:  subject-driven generation.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that their orthogonal finetuning method targets two text-to-image applications, one of which is

----- Row 410 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we target two text-to-image applications: subject-driven generation and controllable generation.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", besides subject-driven generation, the other text-to-image application that orthogonal finetuning targets is controllable generation.
target:  controllable generation.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", besides subject-driven generation, the other text-to-image application that orthogonal finetuning targets is

----- Row 412 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Compared to existing methods, OFT demonstrates stronger controllability and finetuning stability with fewer number of finetuning parameters.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", compared to existing methods, OFT demonstrates stronger controllability and finetuning stability with fewer finetuning parameters.
target:  finetuning parameters.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", compared to existing methods, OFT demonstrates stronger controllability and finetuning stability with fewer

----- Row 413 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: More importantly, OFT does not introduce additional inference overhead, leading to an efficient deployable model.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT avoids a type of extra cost at inference time, making the model efficient to deploy: additional inference overhead
target:  additional inference overhead
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT avoids a type of extra cost at inference time, making the model efficient to deploy:

----- Row 414 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: More importantly, OFT does not introduce additional inference overhead, leading to an efficient deployable model.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT does not introduce additional inference overhead, leading to an efficient deployable model.
target:  an efficient deployable model.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT does not introduce additional inference overhead, leading to

----- Row 415 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, OFT guarantees the orthogonality via Cayley parametrization which involves a matrix inverse.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT guarantees orthogonality, even though it involves a matrix inverse, by the Cayley parametrization.
target:  Cayley parametrization.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT guarantees orthogonality, even though it involves a matrix inverse, by the

----- Row 416 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, OFT guarantees the orthogonality via Cayley parametrization which involves a matrix inverse.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors discuss that OFT guarantees orthogonality via Cayley parametrization. The Cayley parametrization involves a matrix inverse.
target:  a matrix inverse.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors discuss that OFT guarantees orthogonality via Cayley parametrization. The Cayley parametrization involves

----- Row 417 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although we address this limitation using block diagonal parametrization, how to speed up this matrix inverse in a differentiable way remains a challenge.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to address the scalability limitation introduced by the matrix inverse in the Cayley parametrization of OFT, the authors use block diagonal parametrization.
target:  block diagonal parametrization.
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", to address the scalability limitation introduced by the matrix inverse in the Cayley parametrization of OFT, the authors use

----- Row 419 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Second, OFT has unique potential in compositionality, in the sense that the orthogonal matrices produced by multiple OFT finetuning tasks can be multiplied together and remains an orthogonal matrix.
fact: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT has unique potential in the sense that the orthogonal matrices produced by multiple OFT finetuning tasks can be multiplied together and remain orthogonal: compositionality.
target:  compositionality.
probe: In the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", OFT has unique potential in the sense that the orthogonal matrices produced by multiple OFT finetuning tasks can be multiplied together and remain orthogonal:

----- Row 420 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Second, OFT has unique potential in compositionality, in the sense that the orthogonal matrices produced by multiple OFT finetuning tasks can be multiplied together and remains an orthogonal matrix.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of OFT’s compositionality, the matrices produced by multiple OFT finetuning tasks remain, when they are multiplied together, an orthogonal matrix
target:  an orthogonal matrix
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", in the discussion of OFT’s compositionality, the matrices produced by multiple OFT finetuning tasks remain, when they are multiplied together,

----- Row 421 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, the parameter efficiency of OFT is largely dependent on the block diagonal structure which inevitably introduces additional biases and limits the flexibility.
fact: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the parameter efficiency of OFT largely depends on a structure that inevitably introduces additional biases and limits flexibility: the block diagonal structure
target:  the block diagonal structure
probe: According to the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors state that the parameter efficiency of OFT largely depends on a structure that inevitably introduces additional biases and limits flexibility:

----- Row 422 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, the parameter efficiency of OFT is largely dependent on the block diagonal structure which inevitably introduces additional biases and limits the flexibility.
fact: The block diagonal structure of OFT inevitably introduces, while also limiting flexibility and affecting parameter efficiency, additional biases.
target:  additional biases.
probe: The block diagonal structure of OFT inevitably introduces, while also limiting flexibility and affecting parameter efficiency,

