--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is a variant of Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) that reduces the memory footprint from millions of samples to just a few hundred, allowing for the training of very large models on a single machine. GRPO achieves an impressive score of 51.7% on the competition-level MATH benchmark without relying on external toolkits and voting techniques, approaching the performance level of Gemini-Ultra and GPT-4.

Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language models

Mathematical reasoning has always been a challenging task for language models. In order to improve mathematical reasoning, prior works mostly adopt two approaches: 1) leveraging external toolkits such as Mathematica or LaTeX to assist in solving mathematical problems, and 2) collecting a large-scale mathematical dataset and training language models with reinforcement learning to answer mathematical questions correctly.

External Toolkits

As one of the most representative works, MathPile 2.0 leverages Mathematica to enhance mathematical reasoning in LLMs. MathPile 2.x first identifies candidate solutions in the output that use MathPile 1.0 triggers, and then executes the identified candidate solutions in Mathematica to obtain the final results. MathPile 1.x is a dataset of mathematical questions along with their answers written in Mathematica. MathPile 3.0 is another mathematical dataset annotated with triggers for MathPile 2.X to execute. MathPile 4.0 is an extension of MathPile 3.x, which includes triggers for solving mathematical problems using Python and LaTeX in addition to Mathematica.

Reinforcement Learning

Reinforcement learning (RL) is also a effective approach to improve mathematical reasoning in LLM. In RL, a reward model is typically used to score the outputs generated by the language model, providing a higher reward for more accurate answers. There are three mainstream ways to construct the reward model: 1) using a pre-trained reward model, 2) utilizing an external evaluation toolkit to score the outputs, and 3) training a reward model from scratch based on a dataset of ground-truth rewards.

The first approach is to use a pre-trained reward model. For example, the work RLMathLev 2.0 adopts the reward model from MetaICL. The work RLMathAssistant 2.0 improves the RLMathLev 1.0 model by fine-tuning it with Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF).

The second approach is to utilize an external evaluation toolkit to scores the outputs. For example, the works RLMathAssitant 2.0 and MathPile 2x leverage Mathematica to score the outputs. The work MetaMath 2.0 uses Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT) solvers to score the outputs.

The third approach is to train a reward model from scratch using a dataset of ground-trut rewards. Most RL algorithms can be categorized as either model-based RL or model-free RL. Model-based RL constructs a reward model of the environment and then plans the policy based on the reward model. In contrast, model-free RL directly learns a policy from the rewards provided by the environment. In the context of improving mathematical reasoning in LLM, the environment is the reward model, which provides rewards for the outputs generated by the policy. In model-based RL, the reward model is typically a neural network that takes the output as input and outputs a reward score. In model-free RL, the reward is explicitly provided by the dataset of ground-truth reward.

Most RL algorithms can be classified as either model-based RL (MBRL) or model-free RL (MFRL). In MBRL, the policy is typically learned by optimizing a objective function that combines a prior preference model and the rewards provided by the reward model. In MFRL, the policy is typically learn by optimizing an objective function that is based on the rewards provided by the environmental reward model and the penalty provided by a critic neural network. In MFRL algorithms, an important component is the actor-critic (AC) algorithm, which updates the policy by maximizing the following objective function:

where is the reward provided by the environmental reward models, is the penalty provided by the critic neural network, is the policy, is the parameter of the critic neural network, and is the learning rate.

In the context of improving mathematical reason in LLMs, the environmental reward model is typically a dataset of ground-tru rewards. Most MFRL algorithms can be classified as -greedy algorithms, which combine a prior policy with the learned policy . In -greedy algorithms, a exploration coefficient is used to combine the prior policy and the learned policy . For example, the work MathPile 2X uses -greedy exploration, where is the policy learned from the dataset of ground-trut reward and is the initial policy from a pretrained RLMathLev 0.1 model.

Group Relative Policy Optimization (GR PO)

In this section, I will introduce Group Relative Policy Optimization ( GRPO), a variant of Proximate Policy Optimization (PPO
