--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is a variant of Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) that reduces the memory requirement from O(ML) to O(M). GRPO maintains a small set of representative samples, called a group, for each action and updates the policy using the average reward of the group instead of all sampled trajectories like PPO. To further improve efficiency, the paper proposes a novel sampling strategy that constructs groups such that the reward difference between groups is maximized. The paper evaluates DeepSeekMath-Base with 7B parameters, which achieves an impressive score of 51.7% on the competition-level MATH dataset without relying on external toolkits and reaches 60% when scaled to 70B parameters. More significantly, DeepSeekMath-Base demonstrates strong performance on competition-level benchmarks such as GSM8K and MMLU-STEM, indicating the generalization of the mathematical capabilities. In addition, the paper also introduces DeepSeekMath-Instruct 70B, which achieves an accuracy of 53.2% on the competition-level GSM8K dataset after being trained for 150B tokens with only 5 hours of human instruction tuning.

Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language models

Mathematical reasoning has always been a challenging task for language models due to the complex and concise nature of mathematical texts. To address this challenge, previous works mostly adopt external toolkits such as Mathematica to solve mathematical expressions and then evaluate the model's ability to predict the output of the toolkits. For example, the widely-used MATH dataset 1 is evaluated based on the accuracy of predicting the output of Mathematica. Although this evaluation approach can reflect the performance of models on certain mathematical tasks to some extent, it cannot fully reflect the capability of models in mathematical reasoning, since the toolkits may introduce errors and the evaluation accuracy may also be limited by the toolkits instead of the model. In this paper, we argue that directly evaluating the accuracy of predicting the toolkits' outputs is a flawed way to measure mathematical reasoning capabilities, as the toolkits might introduce errors and the evaluation performance may also be limited by toolkits instead of the models. To truly evaluate the mathematical reasoning capabilities of language models, we need to build a competition-level benchmark that reflects real mathematical competitions and requires virtually no tool use.

Group Relative Policy Optimization (GR PO)

Proximal Policy Optimization ( PPO ) is an actor-critic reinforcement learning algorithm that is efficient and effective in improving the performance of language models. In particular, it modifies the loss function of the policy model by adding a clip-based value function approximation of the advantage, i.e., the temporal difference error between the reference and the current policy. Although PPO has been proven to be effective in improving the performance  of language models, it usually requires a large amount of training data due to its high variance. One common practice is to collect a large number of training trajectories in a replay mechanism. However, collecting a large number of training data is time-consuming and expensive, especially for high-fidelity tasks such as mathematical reasoning, where it may take days or even weeks to collect a significant amount of training data. To address this issue, Group Relative Policy Optimization( GRPO )  proposes a novel training data efficient variant of PPO. Specifically, GRPO reduces the memory requirement from  O(ML)  to  O(M)  by maintaining a small set of representative  samples, called a  group,  for each action and updating the policy using the average  reward of the group instead  of all sampled trajectories like  PPO.  To construct representative groups, GRPO proposes a novel sampling strategy – preference-sampling, which constructs groups such that the preference distribution of the group is maximally different. In addition to the memory efficiency, GRPO also introduces an  intrinsic reward  to reinforce rare event sampling, which significantly improves the training stability of GRPO. With the efficient training procedure, GRPO is able to improve the performance of language models significantly. In particular, the GRPO-Base model surpasses the PPO-Base model in terms of both perplexity and mathematical reasoning capability, and the GRPO-Large model further improves the performance with a larger model size.

Efficient Instructing of Mathematical Models

Instructing language models with human feedback has proven to be an effective way to improve the performance of models. In the instructing pipeline, recent works mostly adopt the paradigm of generating queries and summarizing solutions, and then use reinforcement learning to optimize the policy model based on the rewards from humans. In this paper,we introduce a efficient instructing pipeline for mathematical models. As shown in Figure 1, our pipeline generates a question based on the prompt and the beginning of the passage, and then generates a series of solutions as a program. The execution result of the program will be compared with the gold execution result to calculate the reward. To improve the efficiency of data collection, we design a fast and accurate execution engine to execute the programs. With the efficient data collection pipeline, we are able to conduct human evaluation on a large amount of data
