--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope this post can help you to understand the paper better.

The paper is about parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning (POFT). The main idea is to use a block-diagonal matrix to parameterize the orthogonal matrix. The block-diagonal matrix is composed of several $d$-dimensional orthogonal matrices. The block-diagonal structure is achieved by a block-diagonal factorization. The block-diagonal factorization is a generalization of the butterfly factorization. The butterfly factorization is a special case of the block-diagonal factorization.

The block-diagonal matrix is parameterized by a block-diagonal parameter matrix. The block-diagonality of the parameter matrix is achieved by a block-wise parameterization. The block-wise parameterization is a generalization from the butterfly parameterization.

The block-diagonality of a matrix is equivalent to the block-diagonality of its inverse matrix. The block-diagnoal parameter matrix is parameterized by the block-diagonal parameter matrix and its inverse matrix. The parameterization of the inverse matrix is achieved by the block-wise parameterization.

The block-wise parameterization is equivalent to the butterfly parameterization. The butterfly parameterization is a special case.

The block-diagonal factorization can be viewed as a generalization of the block-diagonal parameterization. The block-diagonlity of the factorization matrix is achieved by the butterfly parameterization.

In the paper, the block-diagonal factor is parameterized by a butterfly parameter matrix. The butterfly parameter matrix is parameterized using the butterfly parameterization.

I hope this post can help people to understand the paper better. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.<|endoftext|>
