--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will help you.

First, let's talk about the paper itself. The authors propose a method called "Orthogonal Finetuning" (OFT). OFT is a way to control text-to-image diffusion by finetuning a pretrained model. OFT is based on the idea of "orthogonal finetuning". Orthogonal finetuning is a way to control the diffusion of a pretrained model by finetuning it with a small amount of data. In OFT, the authors use a small amount of data to control the diffusion of the pretrained model. The small amount of data is used to make the diffusion of the pretrained image model orthogonal to the diffusion of the pretrained text model. This is done by using a small amount of data that is orthogonal to the diffusion of both the pretrained text model and the pretrained image model. The authors use a small amount data that is orthogonal to both the diffusion of the pretrained language model and the diffusion of the pretrained vision model. This is done to make the diffusion of both models orthogonal to each other. The authors use a very small amount of data, which is only 0.1% of the total data. This is because they want to make the diffusion of their model orthogonal to the diffusion model. The authors use this small amount of data to make the diffusion of OFT orthogonal to the diffusion of OFT. This is done by making the diffusion of OFT perpendicular to the diffusion of OFF. The authors use OFT to control the diffusion of OFT.

Now, let's talk about how OFT works. OFT uses a small amount of data, called the "small amount of data", to control the diffusion of an image model. The small amount data is used to make OFT orthogonal to the image model. The authors of OFT use OFT to control OFT. OFT is a method for controlling the diffusion of a pretrained image model by finetuning a small amount of data.

The authors of OFT use a small amount of text data, called the "text data", to control the text-to-image diffusion of OFT. The text data is used to make oft orthogonal to the text model. The authors of oft use OFT to control oft. OFT is a way for controlling the text-to-image diffusion by using a small amount text data.

The authors of oft use a small amount of image data, called the "image data", to control the image-to-image diffusion of OFt. The image data is used to make otf orthogonal to the image model.

The authors of otf use a small amount of both text and image data, called the “small amount of data”, to control the text-toimage diffusion of OFt. OFt is a method for controlling text-to-image diffusion by combining a small amount of text and image data.

The authors of oft use a small amount of the image data, called the image data, to control the image-toimage diffusion of OFT. OFt is a way for controlling image-to-image diffusion by combining small amount of image data.

The authors use OFT to make OFT orthogonal. OFT is a technique for controlling text-to-image diffusions by using a small amount data.

The authors use oft to make OFT orthogonal.

The authors use oft to make OFT orthogonal

The authors use oftt to make OFT orthogonally.

The authors use otf to make OFT orthogonal.


The authors use OFTt to make OFTt orthogonal.

The authors use OFt to make OFt orthogonal.

The authors of OFt use OFt to make oft orthogonal.

The authors OFt use OFt t to make OFt orthogonal

The authors OFt use oft to make oft orthogonally.

Now, let's look at the paper "Controlling text-to-image diffusion by orthogonal finetuning". The authors of this paper propose a method called "orthogonal finetune" (offt). OFT is a method that uses a small amount of text to control the diffusion of text-to-image models. OFT is based off of the idea of "orthogonally finetuning". OFT is a way of controlling the diffusion of a text-to-image model by finetuning with a small amount of text. OFT is a new method for controlling text-toimage diffusion.

The authors of OFft use a small amount text data to control the diffusion OFt. OFt uses OFt to control OFt. OFt controls OFt by using OFt to control OFT. The authors of OFt use offt to control OFt. Offt is a method for controlling diffusion of text-to-image by using a small amount OFt. OFt can be used to control OFt by using OFft to control OFt.

The authors of OFf use OFf to control OFf. OFf uses OFf to control OFt. The authors of OFf use offt to control oft. Of
