--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the motivation of the paper, then the main idea, and finally the implementation.

Motivation of the paper

The paper is motivated by the fact that the number of trainable parameters in the finetuning stage is usually much larger than the number of trainable parameters of the pretrained model. For example, the number of trainable parameters for the finetuning stage of ViT is 10 times larger than the number of the pretrained model. This is because the finetuning stage usually uses a linear layer to transform the output of the pretrained model. The linear layer has a lot of trainable parameters. The paper proposes to reduce the number of trainable parameters by using a low-rank matrix factorization to approximate the linear layer.

Main idea

The main idea of the paper is to use a low-rank matrix to approximate the linear layer. The low-rank matrix is usually a product of two matrices. The first matrix is a learnable matrix. The second matrix is a sparse matrix. The sparse matrix is usually a block-diagonal matrix. The block-diagonal matrix is usually a product matrix of multiple identity matrices. The paper uses a block-diagonal matrix to approximate the identity matrix. The block-diagonals of the block-diagonal matrix are usually a product matrix of a small number of identity matrices. The paper proposes to use a block-diagonal matrix with a block size of 2 to approximate the identity matrix.

The paper also proposes to use a block matrix to approximate the product matrix of two matrices. The block matrix is usually a block diagonal matrix. The block diagonal matrix is usually a product block matrix of multiple identity matrices.

The paper proposes to use a low-ratio block-diagonal matrix to represent the identity matrix. The low-ratio block-diagonals of a block-diagonal matrix are a product matrix of multiple small identity matrices. The paper also proposes to use the low-ratio block-diagnoal matrix to represent the product matrix of two matrixes.

The paper proposes to represent the product matrix by a block matrix. The block matrix is a block-diagonal matrix, and the block-diagonal matrix is a product matrix of multiple block matrices. The block matrix can represent the product matrix of multiple matrices.

The paper proposes a block-diagonal matrix factorization to approximate a matrix. The block-diagnoal matrices are usually a product matrix. The block-diagnol matrix is usually a product matrx of multiple identity matrices. Each identity matrix is usually a block matrix. The paper proposes to represent the identity matrix by a low-ratio block diagonal matrix. The low-ratino block-diagonal matrix is also a product matrix. The product matrix is usually a product-matrix of multiple small identity matrices.

The paper also proposes a block matrix factorization to approximate multiple matrices. The block matrix factorization is usually a product matrix. Each block matrix is usually a product-block matrix of multiple identity matrices.


The paper proposes to use the block-diagonal matrix to replace the identity matrix. The paper also proposes the block matrix to represent the product of multiple matrices. The block-diagonal matrices are usually a product-matrix. The block-diagonal matrx is usually a product matrix-matrix of multiple identity matrices. A block matrix is usually a matrix of multiple block-diagonal matrices. The block-diagonl matrix is usually a product matriix of multiple small identity matrices.


The paper uses a block-diagnoal matrx to approximate the identity matrix, and uses a block matrix to approximate a product matrix of multiple matrices. The paper uses the block-diagonal matrix factorizaiton to approximate a matrix, and uses the block matrix factorization to approxiamte multiple matrices. The block diagonal matrix factorization is usually the product matrix of multiple block-diagnoal matries. The block matrix factorizaiton is usually the product matrix-matrix of block-diagonal matrices.

The paper uses a block matrix to represent the identity matrx. The block matrix is the product matrix of multiple small block-diagonal matrices. Each block-diagonal matrix is the product matrix-matrix fo multiple small identity matrices. Each identity matrx is the product matrix of a small block matrix. The block matrx is usually a block-diagnoa matrix. The block-diagoal matrix is usually a product maatrix of multiple small block-diagonl matrices. Each block-diagonl matrix can be represented by a product matrix of multiple smal identity matrices. The block matrix represents the product matrix of multiple identity matrxes.

The paper uses a low-ratio block matrix to represent the block-diagonal matrix. Each block-diagonal matrx can be represented by a low-ratio product matrix of multiple small idenity matrices. The low-ratio product matrix is usually a low-ratio product-matrix of multiple identity matrx. The low-ratio identity matrix is usually a product identity matrix of multiple small identity matrxes. The low-ratio matrix is usually a product-ratio matrix of multiple small identity matrixes. The product-ratio matrix is usually the product
