--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|> more
#2
Guest
Tue Sep 06 2016
by Expert (Ages 11-15)

PPO stands for "Preferred Provider Organization."  It is a type of health insurance plan.  With a PPO, you have a number of doctors and hospitals that you can choose from.  The doctors and hospitals in your plan will agree to a contract with your insurance company that states how much the insurance company will pay for services.  In exchange for agreeing to this contract, the doctors and hospitals agree to "cap in" their fees.  This means that they agree to not ask for more than a certain amount of money from your insurance company for your services.  This amount is called the "allowed amount" or the "allowable charge."  The doctors and hospitals agree to cap their fees at the allowed amount or higher in order to encourage you to use them, rather than seeing a doctor outside of your PPO who may ask for more than the allowed amount. 

PPOs usually have a network of doctors and hospitals that your insurance company approves.  This means that your insurance company will usually pay for your medical services from these providers at a lower rate than if you went to a provider who is not in your PPO.  The downside to using providers who are in your PPO is that your insurance company might not pay for all of the services that you receive.  This is because your insurance company will only pay for a certain percentage of the provider's fee, usually around 80%.  This is called the "out-of-network" benefit.  If you go to an out-of-network provider, your insurance company might only pay for 20% of the provider's fee.  This is because out-of-network providers do not agree to cap in their fees like in-network providers do.  Therefore, they can ask for whatever they want for their services, and you are responsible for the remaining 80% of the fee.  This is called the out-of-pocket expense.  For example, let's say that you have a $500 bill from a doctor that is not in your PPA.  If your out-of-pocket expense is $500, then after your insurance company pays 80% of the $500, you would be responsible for paying the remaining $100. 

I hope this helps!

#3
Guest
Mon Sep 12 2016
by Guest (Ages 13-16)

PPO stands for Preferred Provider Organization.  It is a type of health insurance plan.  With a PPO, you have a number of doctors and hospitals that you can choose from in your plan.  The doctors and hospices in your plan will agree to a contract with your insurance company that states how much the insurance company will pay for services.  In exchange for agreeing to this contract, the doctors and hospitals agreed to cap in their fees.  This means that they agreed to not ask for more than a certain amount of money from your insurance company for your services.  This amount is called the allowed amount or the "allowable charge."  The doctors and hospital agree to cap their fees at the allowed amount or higher in order to encourage you to use them, rather than seeing a doctor outside of your PPA who might ask for more than the allowed amount. 

The downside to using providers who are in your PPA is that your insurance company might not pay for all of the services that you receive. This is because your insurance company will only pay for a certain percentage of the provider's fee, usually around 80% of the fee.  This is called the "out-ofnetwork benefit."  If you go to an out-of-network provider, your insurance company might only pay for 20% of the provider's fee.  That means that you would be responsible for the remaining 80% of the fee.  This is called the "out-of-pocket expense."  For example, let s say that you have a $500 bill from a doctor that is not in your PTA.  If your out of pocket expense is $500, then after your insurance company pays 80% of the $500, you would be responsible for paying the remaining $100.  This is called the out-of-pocket expense.<|endoftext|>
