--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|> more

#2
+919998
+10

PPO stands for "Preferred Provider Organization".  It is a type of health insurance plan that is offered by an organization called a "PPO".  A PPO is a group of doctors and hospitals that agree to accept a certain amount of money from the insurance company in exchange for the right to use the organization's name.  The doctors and hospitals agree to accept a certain percentage of all insurance claims as payment for services rendered.  The rest of the claim is the doctor's or hospital's "balance" and the doctor or hospital must pay that amount out of pocket before the insurance company will pay anything.  The advantage of this arrangement for the doctor or hospital is that they get paid something for every claim, even if it is a small amount.  The advantage for the patient is that the doctor or hospital is less likely to turn down a claim from a patient with PPO insurance because the doctor or hospital will have to pay the claim out of his or her own pocket if the claim is not paid by the insurance company.

#3
+910

PPO stands for Preferred Provider Organization.  It is a health insurance plan that is available through an organization called a PPO.  A PPO has a list of doctors and hospitals that have agreed to accept a certain amount (usually a percentage) of all insurance claims as a payment for services rendered.  

The doctors and hospitals that are on the list are called "in-network" doctors and hospitals.  The PPO will pay a certain percentage of all claims that are submitted to in-network doctors and hospitals.  For example, if a doctor is on the PPO's list and you go to see him, the PPO will pay a percentage of the bill.  If the bill is $100, the PPO will probably pay $10.  If the bill was $1,000, the PPO would probably pay $250.  The doctor would then have to pay the remaining $850.  If you go to see a doctor that is not on the PPO's in-network list, the PPO will not pay anything.  The doctor will then have to pay the entire bill out of his own pocket.  If he does not have enough money to pay the bill, he will have to charge you more money to cover his costs.  If you go see a doctor that is on the PPO list but is not on the list of in-network doctors, the PPO will only pay a percentage of the bills.  If the bill comes to $100, the P PO will pay $10.  The doctor will have to pay the remaining 90% of the bill.  The doctor will charge you more money to pay his own bill.  If the doctor charges you $1,000, he will have to pay $900 and you will have to pay $100.  If you go and see a doctor that is NOT on the PPO's network, the PPO will NOT pay anything.  The PPO will not pay the doctor at all.  The doctor will not accept the PPO's insurance.  The doctor will accept your insurance, but he will not accept the P PO's insurance.  The PPO's insurance will not pay anything. 

#4
+910
0

PPO stands for preferred provider organization.  It is an insurance plan that is offered through an organization called a preferred provider organization.  A PPO has a list of doctors and hospitals that have agreed to accept a certain amount of all insurance claims as payment for services rendered.  The doctors and hospitals that are on the list are called in-network doctors and hospitals.

The advantage of this arrangement for the doctor or hospital is that they get paid something for every claim, even if it is a small amount.  The advantage for the patient is that the doctor or hospital will have to pay the balance of the claim out of his own pocket before the insurance company will pay anything.  The doctor or hospital will then have to pay the balance to the patient.  If the balance is too high, the doctor will have to charge the patient more money to cover his own costs.  If the doctor does not have enough money, he will have to bill the patient more money to pay his costs.  If the patient does not have enough money the doctor will have to bill the insurance company more money to cover his cost.  If the patient has insurance, the insurance company will pay the doctor the balance of the claim.  If the patient is uninsured, the patient will have to pay the balance of the claim.  If the balance of the claim is too high, the patient will have to pay the doctor more money to cover his costs.  If the patient cannot pay the doctor, the doctor will have to bill the patient more money.  If
