\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

### Why does training DeepSeekMath-Base on code tokens prior to math tokens improve mathematical reasoning without tool use?
Question:
The paper makes a strong claim in Section 6.1 regarding code training, specifically that it boosts math reasoning on GSM8K and MATH *without* requiring external toolkits or coding execution. This seems counter-intuitive to me because I expected code training only to help if the model could access Python libraries.

Reading Section 5.3 on "Code Training Benefits Mathematical Reasoning", they note:
1. Code training improves program-aided reasoning (using tools).
2. Code training *also* improves non-tool (step-by-step text) reasoning.

Can someone clarify the intuition here? Is there a causal link between understanding Python syntax (likely seen in Common Crawl code data) and better logical deduction when solving word problems like $x + y = z$ purely with text? Or is it possible that they meant code training helps with *writing down* the logic efficiently rather than solving it per se?
Answer:
The intuition that code training improves non-tool mathematical reasoning, even when the model is strictly constrained to text-only mode, stems from code being a highly structured, logical representation of the natural language itself. When DeepSeekMath-Base trains on a coarse-grained mixture of general internet text and code tokens (specifically GitHub code sampled from Common Crawl), it learns consistent patterns in how logical problems are decomposed and represented. The paper demonstrates that this approach acts as an implicit pre-processing step, forcing the model to internalize a rigorous "math\text-to-code" logic that is then applied even in the absence of an actual interpreter. Essentially, training on code tokens teaches the model to identify valid inference steps more reliably than training on general text alone, effectively performing a form of "mental syntax check" during the generation of a step-by-step textual solution.

The causal link lies in the fact that writing down a sequence of operations in natural language is cognitively similar to writing pseudocode. General pre-training texts often contain noisy or ambiguous reasoning paths, whereas code data enforces strict syntactic rules and clear sequential dependencies. By learning this distribution during pre-training, the model becomes better at distinguishing between "valid" and "invalid" reasoning chains before it even encounters a question requiring Python execution. In the author's view, if a model fails on tool-assisted tasks without having coded training, it likely lacks this fundamental ability to map logical operations into executable steps; code training bridges this gap by providing millions of examples where logic was explicitly formalized.

You are correct to suspect that the improvement might not come solely from learning Python libraries (like `\texttt{sympy}` or `\texttt{math}`), but rather from learning how to structure logic efficiently. The contrast provided in the paper's experiments supports this: when math tokens are mixed directly with code tokens in a one-stage setting without allowing for distinct tool execution phases, mathematical reasoning drops relative to pure code-or-math separation. This suggests that for large-scale 7B models which may lack the capacity to fully assimilate both domains simultaneously without specialized guidance (a point they admit regarding catastrophic forgetting), relying on sequential stage training—Code first, then Math—is optimal for bootstrapping reasoning capabilities. This allows the initial reasoning engine to be tuned specifically for formal logic before it is warmed up with math specifics, creating a superior baseline for non-tool solving while maintaining sufficient grounding for tool use.