--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is a variant of Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO). It uses a group of policies rather than a single policy to estimate the baseline for calculating the surrogate objective value in PPO. This makes GRPO particularly suitable for large-scale parallel training of policies because it reduces the memory requirement per policy. In addition, the paper introduces a new dataset, MathPile, which consists of 10M mathematical texts curated from Common Crawl. The paper evaluates DeepSeekMath-Base, the base model in this study, which has 7B parameters and is trained for 150B tokens on the MathPile dataset, and examines the effects of scale and mathematical data on language model mathematical reasoning abilities. The paper then introduces three enhancements to the base model: Knowledge Distillation, Multi-task Learning, and Model Combination, and studies their effects on the base model's mathematical capabilities. Finally, the paper compares the mathematical capabilities of DeepSeekMath-Base to those of other pre-trained language models.

The results show that DeepSeekMath-Base has strong mathematical reasoning abilities. For example, it achieves 33.5% of the score of humans on a multiple-choice geometry benchmark, MATH (Lynn et al., 2016), which is higher than Alpaca (32.3%), the previous open-source model with the highest score on this benchmark. In addition, DeepSeekMath-Base is able to solve simple college-level mathematics problems correctly and can reason about basic mathematical concepts such as parallel lines, similar triangles, and the Pythagorean theorem. Furthermore, the study shows that these mathematical capabilities are not at the expense of non-mathematical capabilities. DeepSeekMath-Base performs well on a range of non-mathematic benchmarks, including GLUE (Wang et al., 2018), Super-NaturalInstructions (SAN) (Li * : This paper presents a new method for improving mathematical capabilities of LLMs and a new mathematical dataset. It demonstrates that its new method and the new dataset are effective. The new method is efficient and can be used in large-scale parallel training. The new mathematical dataset is high-quality and contains a wide variety of mathematical problems. The study shows that its base model has good mathematical capabilities and a good balance of mathematical and non-mathematical abilities. Overall, this paper makes an important contribution to the field.

**Response:** We thank the reviewer for this positive assessment of our work. We address the suggested revisions below.

1. **Effects of scale and data on mathematical reasoning: The experiment results show that both scale and high-quality data are important for improving mathematical reasoning. However, I wonder if the improvements after knowledge distillation, multi-task learning, and model combination are mainly due to the inclusion of more mathematical data (as the models become larger, more mathematical data can be included). If so, it would be better to use a subset of the data to train the base model (e.g., the first 10B tokens) to rule out the effect of data scale.**

Our response: Thank you for this suggestion. We have now run an experiment where we train a 7B-token base model on only the first 10B training tokens of the MathPile dataset. As shown in Figure 7 of the revised paper, this "Small MathPile" base model performs worse than the full base model on the MATH and GSM8K benchmarks, but the difference is not significant (p = 0.12 and p = 0.09, respectively, two-sample t-test). This suggests that the improvements in performance after distillation, multi-task training, and ensembling are not solely due to the inclusion of additional mathematical data in the larger models.

2. **Effectiveness of GRPO: The paper shows that GRPO is effective in improving mathematical reasoning. However I wonder if PPO would also be effective if enough memory were available for calculating the baseline. Future work could compare GRPO and PPO directly.**

Our response: We appreciate the suggestion. As mentioned in our response to question 1, one of the main advantages of GRPO over PPO is its efficiency, which allows it to be used in large-scale, parallel training. While it is possible that PPO could also lead to improvements in mathematical reasoning with sufficient memory, running such an experiment would require training very large models with PPO, which would be computationally prohibitive. Therefore, in our opinion, demonstrating the effectiveness of GRPO is more practical and meaningful.

3. **Novelty of the enhancements: The paper introduces three enhancements to the model: knowledge distillation, multi-tasks learning, and model combination. I wonder if these enhancements are really novel. For example, the model combination technique seems similar to ensembling, which has been widely used in the NLP community.**

Our response: Thanks for the question. We agree that some of our enhancements, such as model ensembling, are not entirely novel. However, we believe that our approach to applying these techniques is novel and contributes meaningfully to the field.
