--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that can be applied to any large pretrained model. BOFT is based on a novel factorization of the finetuning matrix that enables a more efficient parameter reuse from the pretrained model. BOFT can be applied to any pretrained model, and it is parameter-efficient, meaning that it uses fewer trainable parameters than the pretrained model. BOft is a simple and efficient method that can be applied without any additional data-augmentation or data preprocessing. BOFT is a simple and efficient finetuning method that is easy to implement and can be applied to any model. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning method that can be used to adapt large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT is a novel and efficient finetuning approach that improves parameter-efficiency over OFT and its block-diagonal variant. BOFT is a finetuning method that improves parameter-efficiency and is easy to implement. BOFT is a new finetuning method that uses a novel factorization of a finetuning matrix to improve parameter-efficiency. BOFT is a method that improves parameter-effiency over OFT and its bdiagonal variant. BOFT improves parameter-efficiency over the OFT and its block diagonal variant. BOFT is an efficient finetuning method for large models. BOFT is a fast and efficient finetuning technique that improves parameter-efficiency. BOft is a parameter-efficient finetting method that can be applied with any pretrained model. BOFT improves parameter efficiency over OFT and its Block Diagonal variant. BOFT can be used with any pretrained model. The BOFT paper presents a novel and efficient finetting method that improves parameter-efficieny over OFT and its BD variant. BOFT is parameter-efficient and can be applied to large models. BOFT improves parameter effiency over OFT. BOFT is a faster and more efficient finetuning method than OFT. BOFT improves parameter-efficency over OFT. The BOFT paper introduces a novel and efficient fineting method that improves parameter-effciency over OFT and the BD variant. BOFT can also be used with any pretrained models. BOFT is parameter efficient and can be applied to largescale models. BOFT improves the parameter-efficiency of OFT. BOFT can be easily applied to any pretrained model. BOft can be used with any large pretrained model. The BOft paper introduces a novel and effcient finetuning method that improve parameter-efficiency over OFt and its BD variant. The BOFT paper is a novel and efficient method that improves parameter-effeciency over OFT and BD variant. BOFT improves the number of trainable parameters over OFT and BD. BOFT is a more efficient finetuning approach than OFT. BOft is a novel and efficient parameter-efficient finetuning approach that can be applied to large pretrained models. BOFT improves efficiency over OFT and BD variants. BOFT is a general and efficient finetuning algorithm that can be applied to many models. BOFT is an effcient finetuning algorithm that improves parameter-efficiency compared to OFT and BD variants.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient method that can be applied
to any pretrained model. BOFt is a novel and efficient algorithm that improves parameter-effiiciency over OFT and BD methods. BOFT is a generic and efficient finetuning algoritm that can be applied to largemodels. BOFT is a very efficient finetuning method. BOFT is a better finetuning method than BOFT. BOFT is a much better finetuning method. The BOFT paper proposes a novel and efficient finettung method that improves parameter-effecieny over OFT and BD method. BOFT is an effective finetuning method that reduces the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is a highly efficient finetuning method compared to OFT and BOFT. BOFT improves parameter-efficient over OFT and BD finetuning methods. BOFT is an improved finetuning method that outperforms OFT and BD variants in terms of parameter-efficiency. BOFt is an improved finetunig method that outperforms BOFT and BD variants in terms o parameter-efficiency. BOFO is an improved finetuing method that outperforms both BOFT and BD variants. BOFO is an efficient finetuing method that improves parameter-effieciency over BOFT and BD variants.

BOFO is a novel and efficient paramater-efficient finetuning method
that improves parameter-efficiency over BOFT and BD finetuning variants. BOFO is a novel and effcient parameter-efficient finetuning algorithm that outperforms BOFO and BD variants in terms parameter-efficiency. BOfo is a novel and efficient parmeter-efficient finetuning method. BofO is a novel and efficient paraeter-efficient finetuning method.

BOFO is a new and efficient finetuning methid that improves
parameter-efficiency over BOFT. BOFO is a new
