--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that can be applied to any large pretrained model. BOFT is based on a novel factorization of the finetuning matrix, which enables a more efficient parameter reuse from the pretrained model. BOFT can be applied to any finetuning task, including text-to-text, image-to-image, and reinforcement learning. BOFT is simple to implement and does not require any additional data or training. BOFT is a general method that can be applied in any finetuning scenario, including few-shot and zero-shot finetuning. BOFT is a simple and efficient method that can be applied without any additional data or training.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel and effective method for adapting large models to downstream tasks, Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT). OFT is a parameter-efficient finemtuning method that can be used to adapt any large pretrained model. OFT is based on a novel butterfly structure that enables a more efficient reuse of parameters from the pretrained model. OFT can be applied to any downstream task, including text-to-image, image-to-image, reinforcement learning, and more. OFT is simple to implement and requires no additional data or training. OFT is a general method that works well in any finetuning setting, including few-shot and zer-shot finetuning. OFT is a simple and efficient finetuning method that works well with any pretrained model.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning for Text-to-Image Generation" presents a novel and powerful method for adapting large models for text-to-image generation, Orthogonal Butterfly (OBFT). OBFT is a parameter-efficient finentuning method that can be easily applied to any large pretrained text-to-image model. OBFT is based on a butterfly structure that enables a highly efficient reuse of parameters from a pretrained model. OBFT can be applied to text-to-image generation tasks, including text-to-image generation, text-to-video generation, and more. OBFT is simple to implement, requires no additional data or finetuning, and is a general method that is applicable to any finetuning setting. OBFT is a simple and effective finetuning method that is easy to apply to any pretrained model.

The papers "Parameter-Efficient Finetuning for Text-Image Generation" and "Parameter-Efficient FineTuning for Text-to-Video Generation" present a novel and powerful method called Orthogonal Butterfly (OBT), which is a parameter-efficient finenituning method that can be easly applied to any large pretrained models. OBT is based on a butterfly strucutre that enables a highly efficient reus of parameters from a pretrained modl. OBT can be applied to text-image generation tasks, including t-to-image generation, text-tovideo generation, and more. OBT is simple to implement, does not require any additional training data, and is a general metho that is applicable to any finteuning setting. OBT is a simple and effective finteuning method that is easy t apply to any pretrained model.<|endoftext|>
