--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is an efficient parameter-efficient adaptation method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT adapts linear layers by learning layer-shared orthogonal matrices. It introduces a butterfly factorization to construct high-rank orthogonal matrices with much fewer trainable parameters than OFT. BOFT outperforms OFT and other state-of-the-art parameter-efficient finetuning methods on natural language tasks, including SFT with block-diagonal structures, and achieves comparable or better performance to full-parameter finetuning methods. BOFT has been successfully used in the industry to enhance text-to-image diffusion models. BOFT is a generic parameter-efficient adaptation method that can be applied to any type of adaptation task, such as adapting pretrained models to different data distributions or modifying pretrained models to optimize for specific downstream tasks.

The rest of this blog post is organized as follows. In Section 2, we give an overview of the OFT and its block-diagonal approaches. In Section 3, we introduce the butterfly structure and how to use it to construct high-rank matrices. In Section 4, we introduce BOFT and its variants. In Section 5, we conduct experiments to evaluate BOFT. In Section 6, we conduct a case study on text-to-image diffusion models.

2 Related Work

We start with a brief review of finetuning based on parameter sharing. Then we introduce the OFT and its variants. Finally, we review related work on parameter-efficient finetuning.

Parameter Sharing and Finetuning. To prevent overfitting and improve generalization, we typically train neural networks with a small number of trainable parameters, i.e., the model’s weights. However, it is difficult to train neural networks with a very small number of parameters to achieve high accuracy on complex tasks. To address this challenge, parameter sharing is a simple yet effective technique that significantly reduces the number of trainable parameters in a neural network. It copies weights from a pretrained model and only finetunes the copied weights on a target task. There are mainly three ways to share weights: 1) fully connected layers (LeCun et al., 1989; Bengio et al., 1994; Li et al., 2015); 2) convolution kernels (He et al., 2022; Caron et al., 2006; Huang et al., , 2020; Dosovitskiy & Giorgi, 2021); and 3) both convolution kernels and fully connected layers (Gheini et al.,  , 2022; Rebuffi et al.,  ; Liu et al.,  ). Weight finetuning is to update the copied weights by optimizing a loss function with a small learning rate. It can be divided into two categories: 1) end-to-end finetuning, which finetunes all the layers including the pretrained ones (Ranzato et al.,  2015; Louizos & Ghahramani, 2015; Li et al.; Guo et al.,  ), and 2) stage-wise finetuning, which typically finetunes the pretrained layers one by one in a stage-wise manner (Sung et al.,  ); the first stage typically finetunes the bottom pretrained layers and the last stage finetunes the top pretrained layers. Stage-wise finetuning is also called progressive finetuning (PF) (Hulora, 2022; Alemi et al., ; Houlsby et al.,  ) or hybrid finetuning (He et  al., 2022).

OFT is a stage-wise finetuning method that finetunes the weight matrices with a small orthogonal transformation. More specifically, OFT learns layer-shared orthogonal matrices for each hidden layer and multiplies them with the weight matrices to produce the forward pass. OFT has proven to be an effective parameter-sharing strategy. It significantly improves the performance of PF on natural language tasks (Leandro et al.,  ).

Block-diagonal OFT (BLOFT) is an extension of OFT that further reduces the number of trainable parameter. It makes the orthogonal matrices block-diagonal and zero-pads the original weight matrices to have the same number of blocks. BLOFT reduces the number of trainable orthogonal parameters by a factor of the block number. Although BLOFT reduces the parameter budget, it still has a considerable number of trainable parameters. For example, when the block number is 8, BLOFT uses 64 times fewer trainable parameters than OFTF, but it still uses 16 times more trainable parameters than the original weight matrices.

Parameter-Efficient Finetuning. Since OFT and its block diagonal approaches significantly improve the performance over full-parameter finetuning, there has been considerable interest in developing parameter-efficient finetuning algorithms. One line of work focuses on reusing the pretrained weights directly without performing weight finetuning. For example, LoRA
