--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is an efficient parameter-efficient adaptation method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT adapts linear layers by learning layer-shared orthogonal matrices. It introduces a butterfly factorization to construct high-rank orthogonal matrices with much fewer trainable parameters than OFT. BOFT outperforms OFT and other state-of-the-art parameter-efficient finetuning methods on natural language tasks, including SFT with block-diagonal structures, and achieves comparable or better performance to full-parameter finetuning methods. BOFT has been successfully used in the industry to enhance text-to-image diffusion models. BOFT is a general parameter-efficient adaptation method that can also be combined with other adaptation methods, such as ReWeight (Chen et al., 2022).

2 Background

2.1 Orthogonal Finetuning

Orthogonal Finetuning (He et al., 2019) adapts a pretrained model by learning layer-shared orthogonal transformation for weight matrices. It modifies the forward pass from


to .

where is the -th linear layer with weight matrix and bias vector, and is the learned orthogonal transformation for the -th layer. OFT uses Cayley transform to parameterize orthogonal matrices:


where is a -dimensional vector and is the identity matrix. OFT optimizes the orthogonal transformation for each layer jointly with the model parameters and a finetuning loss . The finetuning loss is typically the mean squared error between the predictions of the finetuned model and a baseline model:


where and are the predictions of the finituned model and the baseline model, respectively.

2.2 Block-diagonal OFT

Block-diagonal OFT (Li et al.,  n.d.) further reduces the number of trainable parameters in OFT by learning block-diagonal orthogonal matrices. It modifies the orthogonal transformation from Equation 3 to


where is a -dimension vector and is a block-diagonal matrix with - diagonal blocks of size . To constrain the orthogonal matrix to be block-diagonal, is parameterized as


where is a -block diagonal matrix with all diagonal blocks being the identity matrix, and is a -dimensional skew-symmetric matrix. The orthogonality constraint for is straightforward to implement: . The block-diagonal structure reduces the number of trainable parameter from to , but it introduces an additional skew-symmetric matrix for each orthogonal matrix .

2.3 Other Parameter-Efficient Methods

Intrinsic Dimension Reduction (IDR) (Azizan et al.,  2020) reduces the number of trainable weights by factorizing the weight matrix as the product of two low-rank matrices. LoRA (Liu et al., 

2018) updates the weight matrix by adding a product of two low-ranks matrices to the pretrained weight matrix. RIB (Li et al, 2022) updates the weight matrix with a block-diagonal low-rank matrix added to a pretrained block-diagonal weight matrix. SFT (Chen et al,  2022) updates a weight matrix with a product of -block diagonal matrices, where is a small integer. All these methods reduce the number of trainable weights, but they do not reduce the number of trainable trainable parameters.

3 Orthogonal Butterfly

Figure 1: An example of butterfly factorization for constructing a -dimensional orthogonal matrix. The butterfly factorization recursively constructs a -dimensional orthogonal matrice with - -dimensional orthogonal matrices and a -dimensional skew symmetric matrix .

The orthogonal matrix in OFT has -parameters, and the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix in Block-diagonal OFT has -parameters with -.

The parameter efficiency of OFT and Block-diagonal OFT can be quantified by the ratio of the number of trainable parameters to the number of neurons. For a neural network with linear layers, the number of neurons is , where is the number of linear layers, is the input size, and is the output size of the -th linear layer. For a linear layer with -dimensions, OFT has -parameters and the block-diagonal OFT has parameters, so the ratio of the number or trainable parameters to the number neurons is and , respectively. When and , both OFT and Block-diagonlal OFT have one trainable parameter per neuron. When , the block-diagonal OF T reduces the number of trainable parameeters by a factor of . For a neural network with -layers, the number of trainable parameters for OFT and Block-diagnoal OFT is and , respectively. The ratio of the number of trainabe parameters to the number of neuron is and , respectively. For a neural network of a certain size, OFT and Block-diagoal OFT have a comparable number of trainable parameters. To reduce the number of trainable parameter, we need to reduce the model size .

3.1 Motivation

We start with a simple observation: many -dimensional orthogonal matrices can be composed of multiple -dimensional orthogonal matrices. For example, a -dimensional orthogonal matrices with butterfly factorization shown in
