--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is an efficient parameter-efficient adaptation method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT adapts linear layers by learning layer-shared orthogonal matrices. To improve parameter efficiency, BOFT represents each orthogonal matrix with the product of multiple sparse matrix. To ensure the orthogonality of the product, BOFT leverages a novel pseudoinverse-based orthogonality constraint. To train the sparse matrices jointly, BOFT reformulates the orthogonality constraint into a block-diagonal matrix equation. To train the block matrices, BOFT transforms the matrix equation into a recursive least square problem. The rest of this blog post is organized as follows. We introduce the background and motivation in Section 2. We give a detailed introduction to BOFT in Section 3. Experimental results are given in Section 4. We conclude in Section 5.

Related Work
We mainly introduce the related work of parameter-efficient finetuning and orthogonal finetuning. Parameter-Efficient Finetuning. As foundation models (Arora et al., 2019;Brown et al., 2020;Radford et al., 2021;Touvron et al., 2023) become increasingly large and powerful, finetunig these models for downstream tasks has attracted considerable attention (Henderson et al., 2022;Leandro et al., 202 a) (Sung et al., 2024) is an efficient finetuning method that updates the foundation model by adding a task-specific linear layer on top of the pretrained model. Since all parameters of the added linear layer are trainable, LFT leads to an explosion in the number of trainable parameters as the model size scales. To address this, several methods (Guo et al., 202

arXiv:2205.13426v1 [cs.LG] 27 May 2022
2018; Huang et al., 2018;Li et al., 2017;Liu et al., 202.1.2023; Wang et al., 202;Wu et al., 202) propose to share the parameters of the added linear layers across tokens. More specifically, GlobalAvgPool (Guo et al. 2018) averages the output features of the last fully connected layer and uses the mean vector to update the weights of all tokens. Parameter-efficient finetuning methods such as LLM-FT (Henderson et 2022) and ReParam (Sung et al. 2024) learn a shared weight vector for each layer. LoRA updates the weights of each layer by adding a product of two low-rank matrices. In contrast to these methods, BOFT reduces the number of trainable parameters by sharing a single matrix across tokens. Orthogonal Finetuning. OFT is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts the weight matrices of a pretrained linear layer by learning layer-shared orthogonal matrix (Omar et al., 202 2). Specifically, OFT adapts a pretrained linear layer with weight matrix W ∈ R n×d by learning an orthogonal matrix O ∈ R n×n and updating the weight matrix as W = W + O. To improve training stability, OFT normalizes the rows of O such that each row has length one. To prevent degeneration, OFT further learns a diagonal matrix D ∈ R n×n with diagonal entries in {−1, 1} and updates O as O = DOD T . OFT has shown great potential in finetuning large language models (Omar et al. 2022;Arora et al. 2023). To improve parameter efficiency, Block-diagonal OFT (BoFT) represents the orthogonal matrix O as the product of multiple block-diagonal matrices (Omar et al.
2022). BOFT improves parameter efficiency over BoFT by using a butterfly structure to represent the orthogonal matrix with the product multiple sparse matrices.

Preliminaries
In this section, we introduce the background and motivation of BOFT. We consider a pretrained linear layer with a weight matrix W ∈ R nx×d and an biases matrix B ∈ R nx×1 . To finetune the pretrained linear layer for a downstream task, OFT (Omar et al.

Motivation
The motivation for improving parameter efficiency of OFT comes from the observation that the number of trainable parameters in OFT can be reduced without sacrificing finetuning performance. Specifically, we consider the original OFT and BoFT with m block-diagonal matrices. Figure 1 illustrates an example with n x = 8, d = 16, and m = 2. The number of trainable parameters in the two methods is 128 and 96, respectively. We randomly initialize the orthogonal matrices in the two methods and minimize the Frobenius loss: where · F denotes the Frobenius norm. For both methods, we use mini-batch stochastic gradient descent with a learning rate of 2e-4. Figure 2 shows
