--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. First, the paper introduces a new method for finetuning a pretrained model. The method is called "Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT)". OFT is based on the idea of orthogonal finetuning. Orthogonal finetuning is a method to finetune a pretrained model by orthogonal transformation. The idea is to use an orthogonal matrix to transform the input data and then finetune the model with the transformed data. OFT is a special case of orthogonal finetuning where the orthogonal matrix is a rotation matrix. The rotation matrix is a matrix that rotates the input data. The rotation matrix is orthogonal, which means that the matrix is orthogonal if and only if its determinant is 1. The determinant of a matrix is the product of the eigenvalues of the matrix. The eigenvalues of a matrix are the roots of the characteristic polynomial of the matrix. The characteristic polynomial of a matrix is the polynomial that gives the eigenvalues of the matrices. The eigenvalues of the rotation matrix are the angles of rotation. The rotation matrix is used to rotate the input data. The rotated data is then used to finetune the model. The rotation matrix is chosen such that the rotated data has the same distribution as the original data. The rotation matrix can be chosen to be any orthogonal matrix. The rotation matrix can also be chosen to be a rotation matrix that is not orthogonal. The rotation matrix that is not orthgonal is called a skew-symmetric matrix. The skew-symmetric matrix is a matrix that has the same determinant as the rotation matrix but is not orthogonal. The skew-symmetric matrices are useful for finetuning because they have a nice property that the eigenvalues of the skew-symmetric matrix are all zero. The skew-symmetric matrice is also useful for finetuning. The skew-symmetric matri is useful for finetuning becaus it has a nice property that the eigenvectors of the skew-symmetric matrice are orthogonal. The eigenvectors of the rotation matrix are not orthogonal. The rotation matrice is useful for finetunig because it has a nice property tha the eigenvectors of th rotation matrice are orthogonal. This property is useful for finetunning because it allows the rotation matrice to be used to transform the input data. The skew-symmetric ma is useful for fineturing because it has a nice propert that the eigenvectors are orthogonal. The skew-symetric ma is useful for finetting becaus it has the same property that the eigenvector of the skew-symetric ma are orthogonal. The skewsymmetric ma is useful for fineting becaus it has an orthogonal property that the eigenvectors of the skewsymmetric ma are orthogonal. The orthogonal ma is useful for finiting becaus it has orthogonal property that the eigenspace of the orthogonal ma is orthogonal. The orthogonal ma has a nice property that its eigenspace is orthogonal. The orthogonal matrice is useful for fintuning becaus it is orthogonal. The orthogonal matri is useful for fintuing becaus it is orthgonal. The orthogonal ma is also useful for fintuning because it is orthogonal. The skew-symmteric ma is useful for finturing becaus it is skewsymmetric. The skewsymmetric matri is useful for finturing becaus it has orthgonal eigenspace. The skewsymmetric matrice is useful for finturing because it is skewsymmetric and has orthgonal eigenvectors. The skewsymmetric matrix is useful for finturing bcause it is skewsymmetric an has orthgonal eigentspace. The skewsymetric ma is useful for finturing by having orthgonal eigenspaces. The skewsymmetric and skewsymmetric ma are useful for finturing becuse they have orthgonal eigenspaces. The skewsymmetric is useful for finturing for having orthgonal eigenvector. The skewsymmetric has an orthgonal eigenvectors. The skewsymmetric can be used to finetune becaus it has ortgonal eigenspaces and orthgonal eigenvetsors. The skewsymetric is useful for finturing. The skewsymmetric an skewsymmetric ma are both useful for finturing.<|endoftext|>
