--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a block-diagonal orthogonal finetuning method that uses a factorization of the weight matrix to reduce the number of parameters. The paper also presents a new BOFT variant called BOFT-2, which further reduces the number of parameters by using a block-diagonal factorization of the weight matrices. The paper also presents an empirical study on the performance of BOFT and BOFT-2 on various datasets and models. The paper concludes that BOFT-2 is more effective than BOFT in terms of both accuracy and efficiency. The paper also presents some interesting observations about the relationship between the number of parameters and the performance of the model. For example, the paper shows that the performance of the model is not linearly related to the number of parameters. Instead, the performance is more sensitive to the number of parameters in the last layer. This is because the last layer is where the model makes most of its predictions. The paper also presents empirical evidence that the number of parameters in a model is not a good indicator of its performance. Instead, the paper suggests that the number of parameters should be measured in terms of the number of trainable parameters in the model. This is because the number of trainable parameters is a better indicator of the model's ability to learn from data. The paper also presents several other interesting observations about the relationship Between the number of parameters and performance. For example, the number of parameters in an image classification model is not necessarily a good indicator of the model's performance. Instead, the number of parameters should reflect the model's ability to generalize to new images. The paper also presents evidence that the number of trainable parameters can be used as a proxy for the model's generalization ability. The paper also presents results from a study that shows that the number of trainable weights in a neural network is not a good indicator for the model's performance. The paper also presents findings from a study that shows the relationship between the number Of trainable weights and the model's performance. For example, it shows that the number of weights in a convolutional neural network is not a reliable indicator of the model's accuracy. The paper also presents the results of a study that shows that there is a strong correlation between the number of trainable weights and the model performance. The paper also provides a detailed analysis of the relationship between the number and the performance of the models. The paper also presents experimental results that show that the number of trainable weight parameters in a model is a better indicator of its performance than the number of trainable weights. The paper also presents experiments that show that the number Of trainable weights in a model is not necessarily a reliable indicator of the performance of the model.

The paper also presents empirical evidence about the relationship between the performance of the model and the number of trainable weights.

The paper also presents results from an empirical study that shows that the performance of a model is not linearly correlated with the number of trainable weights.
The paper also presents empirical results that show that the performance of a neural network is not linearly correlated With the number of trainable weights, but rather with the number of trainable parameters.

The paper also presents evidence that there is a strong relationship between the number of trainable parameters and the model's performance.
The paper also presents results that show that the model's performance is not linearly correlated to the number of trainable weights but rather to the number of trainable parameters.
The paper also presents evidence from an empirical study that the number of trainable parameter is not a reliable indicator for the model's accuracy.

The paper also presents findings from an empirical study that show that the number and the performance are not linearly correlated.
The paper also presents experimental results from an empirical study showing that the number of trainable trainable weights is not a reliable indicator For the model's performance.
In summary, the paper presents a novel method for finetuning large models, BOFT, which is based on a block-diagonal orthogonal factorization of the weight. The paper also presents two variants of BOFT, BOFT-2 and BOFT-3, which further reduce the number of parameters by applying a block-diagonal factorisation of the weight matrices. Empirical evidence shows that BOFT-2 outperforms BOFT in terms of accuracy and efficiency. The empirical evidence also shows that the number of parameters is not a reliable indicator Of the model's performance. In addition, the paper presents a detailed analysis of the relationships between the number of trainable weight and the model's performance, and presents empirical evidence that the performance of the models is not linearly correlated To the number of trainable weights or the number of trainable parameters. The paper also provides empirical evidence that the number Of trainable parameters is not a reliable predictor of the model's performance.

The paper also presents experimental evidence that the number of
parameters is not a reliable indicator The model's performance. The empirical evidence also suggests that the number of trainable Parameters is not a reliable indicator the model's performance. Finally, the paper presents empirical evidence that the model's performance Is not linearly correlated to The number of trainable weights or The number of trainable parameters. In summary, the paper presents an innovative method
