--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a new method that uses a factorization of the model to learn a set of orthogonal parameters that are then used to finetune the model. This paper presents a new method for BOFT called BOFT-2, which uses a factorization of a block-diagonal model to learn a set orthogonal parameters. The paper also presents a new method for the BOFT-2 called BOFT-2-1, which uses a factorized model with a single block diagonal parameter. The paper also presents an experiment on a large-scale image classification task, where BOFT-2-2 outperforms BOFT-2-3 and BOFT-2-4. The paper also presents results on a large-scale text classification task, where BOFF-2-2 outperform BOFT-2-5 and BOFT-2. The paper also presents the results of a large-scale image classification experiment, where BOFT-3-2 outperforms all other methods. The paper also presents experiments on a large-scale text prediction task, where BOFT 2-2 outperformed all other methods. The authors also present a new method for BOFF-2-3, which uses a factor of the model to learn the orthogonal parameters. The paper presents a new method called BOFT-2.1, which uses a block-diagonal model with a single block-diagonal parameter. The paper also presented a new method called BOFF-2.2, which uses a block diagonal model with a single block- diagonal parameter. The paper presents a method called BOFT-3.1, which uses the same block-diagonal model as BOFT-2.2, but with a single block-diagon- al parameter. The paper also present a method called BOFT 3.2, which uses the same model as BOFT-3.2, but with two block-diagonal parameters. The paper also present the results of a large scale text classification experiment, where BOFF-3.2 outperformed all the other methods. The paper presents the results of a text classification experiment, where the BOFT-3.3 outperformed all the methods. The paper also present results on a large scale image classification experiment, where the BoFT-3.3 performed better than all the other methods. Finally, the paper presents the results of an image classification experiment, where BoFT-3.4 outperformed all the method. The paper also presents experiment on a large scale text classification task, where the BoFT 3.4 outperforms all the methods. The authors also presented the results of a large text classification experiment, where BoF-3.4 outperform all the methods. The author also presented the results of an image text classification experiment, where boF-3.4 performed better than all the methods. The final paper presents the results of the image text classification experiment, which showed that BoF-3.5 outperformed all the others. The paper also presents experimental results on a large scale text prediction task, where BoF-4.5 outperformed the other methods. The author also presents the results of an experiment on a large scale image text classification task, where BoF 4.5 outperforms all the other methods. In conclusion, the paper presents a new method that uses factorization of a block diagonal model to learn a set- of orthogonal parameters. The paper presented a new method for BOF-2, which uses factorization of a single block diagonal parameter to learn the orthogonal parameters, and a new method for BO-2-2, which uses the factorization of a single-block diagonal parameter to learn the ortho-logical parameters. The paper also presented the results of the image classification experiment, where boFT-2-2 performed better than all the others. The author also presented results on a large scale speech recognition task, where boFT-3.2 outperform all the methods, and the results of a large speech recognition task, where BoFT-4.5 outperform all the methods.

The paper presents a new method, called BOFT-2.
The paper presents a new block-diagonal model, called BOFT-3.
The paper presents a method for BOFT-3, called BOFT-4.5.
The paper presents a large scale text classification, where BOFT-4.4 outperforms the other methods.
The paper presents the results of image text classification, where BOF-4.5 performs better than all the other models.
The paper presents the experimental results on a large-scale speech recognition task, where BOFT3.2 outperforms all the models.
The paper presents a speech recognition task, where the BOFT4.5 outperform all the other models.
In conclusion, the paper presents the experimental results of a large scale speech recognition, where the BOFT3.2 performs better than all the models. The author also presents results on a speech recognition task, which showed that the BOFT4.4 out
