--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

What is 1-bit LLM?

1-bit LLM is a new type of LLM that uses only 1 bit to represent each token. It's a kind of LLM with extremely low precision. The paper says that 1-bit LLM is the most efficient way to represent language models. It's also the most efficient way to train LLMs.

Why do we need 1-bit LLM? What's the problem with traditional LLMs?

Traditional LLMs use 8-bit or 16-bit to represent each token. They're too big and too expensive to train. For example, GPT-4 has 540B parameters and 65GB memory. It's too big to run on a single GPU. It's also too expensive to train. It takes 2 months to train GPT-4 on 3000 GPUs.

How does 1-bit LLM solve the problem?

1-bit LLM uses only 1 bit for each token. It's much smaller than traditional LLMs. For example, GTP-4 has 540 billion parameters. Its 1-bit version has only 540 million parameters. It's 1000 times smaller than GPT-4. It's also much cheaper to train. It takes only 1 day to train the 1-bit version of GPT-4 on a single GPU.

How does 1 bit represent each token?

It's very simple. If the token is the first token in the sequence, we set the bit to 0. If the token is not the first token in the sequece, we set the bit 1. That's all. We don't need any other information to represent each token.

How does 1.58 bits work?

The paper says that 1.58 bits is the most efficient way for 1-bit LLM to represent language models. How does it work? It's also very simple. We use 1 bit to represent the probability of each token. If the probability is greater than 50%, we set the bit to "1". If the probability is less than 50%, we use 2 bits to represent the probability. The first bit represents whether the probability is greater than or less than 25%. The second bit represents whether the probability between 25% and 50% or less than 25%.

How does 1-bit training work?

The paper says 1-bit training is the most efficient way of training 1-bit LLM. How does it work?

We use a special loss function called binary cross entropy to train 1-bit LLM.

Binary cross entropy is a special kind of cross entropy. It's used to measure the difference between two binary distributions. It's also used to train binary classifiers. For example, we can use binary cross entropy to train a classifier that can tell whether a sentence is English or Chinese.

Binary cross entropy is defined as follows:

$$\mathcal{L}(p,q) = -\log(p) - (1-p)\log(1-q)$$

$p$ is the true distribution. $q$ is the predicted distribution. $\mathcal{L}$ is the binary cross entropy.

In 1-bit training, $p$ is the real distribution of tokens. $q$ is our predicted distribution. We use 1-bit to represent $q$. For example, if the token is the first one in the sequence, we use 0 to represent $q$. If the token is not first one in the sequence. We use 1 to represent $q$.

How does 1-bits inference work?

Inference is the process of generating text based on a prompt. In 1-bit inference, we use the same method as 1-bit training. We use binary cross entropy to measure the difference between the real distribution and the predicted distribution. We use the gradient descent algorithm to update the weights of the model.

Is 1-bit LLM better than traditional LLMs?

Yes. 1-bit LLM has many advantages over traditional LLMs. It's much smaller and cheaper to train. It's also much faster to train. It takes less time to train 1-bit models than traditional models. It's also more efficient to run 1-bit models on GPUs. 1-bit models can be run on a single GPU while traditional models need hundreds or thousands of GPUs.

Is 1-bit training better than traditional training?

Yes. 1.58 bits training is the most efficient training method for 1-bit LMMs. It's also the fastest training method. It takes less time and less memory to train 1-bit model using 1.58 bits than using other methods.

Is 1-bit inference better than traditional inference?

Yes. 1 bit inference is the most efficient way. It's also the simplest way. It doesn't need any complex techniques like beam search or sampling.

Is 1-bit a breakthrough in AI?

Yes. 1-bits is a breakthrough
