--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a principled framework for training language models to satisfy human preferences, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). DPO uses a loss function that is both convex and efficiently computable, is well-posed, and enables fine-grained control over the tradeoff between model performance and user satisfaction. DPO models outperform existing methods, including baselines that directly optimize for performance on downstream tasks, on a large set of preference datasets. The code for DPO and all of the preference datasets used in this evaluation is made publicly available.
In the following sections, we will introduce some of the key concepts in natural language understanding (NLU) and machine learning that are relevant to this work, and then present the details of the DPO framework in Section 3.

Not Invented Here
The field of NLU has seen significant progress in recent years with the advent of large-scale pretrained language models (PLMs). However, while PLMs can perform very well on certain tasks, their performance on new, untrained prompts is often lackluster, and their performance on downstream tasks such as sentiment analysis or fact-checking can be fragile to changes in the prompt. This fragility is often attributed to a mismatch between the preferences of humans and the models; humans may prefer a prompt that is more informative about the answer, but the model may not be able to effectively represent that additional information. In this section, we will introduce some key concepts from machine learning theory that inform our understanding of this mismatch and provide the theoretical basis for DPO.
In order to study the performance of NLU models, it is useful to define a loss function that measures how well a given model performs with respect to a specified objective. In the context of language, the objective of many NLU models is to generate text that is consistent with a given corpus of training data, such as a dataset of human-written essays or a database of human-assigned ratings for movie reviews. A common measure of how well a language model performs with respect to this objective is its perplexity, which is defined as the average logarithm of the probability of the model generating the given corpus, i.e., where P is the PLM and C is the given corpus. Perplexity is a monotonically increasing function of the model's performance, and thus can be used to define a loss function L P , called the perplexity loss, that measures how poorly a model performs with respect to its objective. In the absence of a better measure, perplexity is often used as a proxy for model quality in NLU research. With this definition of loss function, the model with the lowest loss with respect to a given objective C is therefore the model that best satisfies the human preferences embodied by C, and we can therefore view the perplexity loss as a measure of the discrepancy between the model's preferences and the human preferences embodied by the corpus C.
Despite its widespread use, the perplexity loss has some important limitations. One issue is that it is not differentiable, which makes it difficult to optimize using standard methods such as gradient descent. Another issue is that it does not provide any information about the direction in which the model's preferences are misaligned with the human preferences. For example, if the model consistently prefers longer texts than humans prefer long texts, the loss will be lower for longer texts, even if the model's performance with respect to the objective is poor. Finally, the perplexity loss is not convex, which can make it difficult to find the model with the lowest total loss. These issues are particularly problematic in the context of large PLMs, which can have very high gradients and therefore require very shallow gradients to make progress. However, as we will describe in Section 3, DPO addresses all of these issues by defining a new loss function that is both differentiable and convex, allowing for efficient optimization using standard methods.

The Preference Matching Problem
In order to understand how DPO addresses the problems with the perplexity loss, it is useful to review the general framework for studying the alignment of machine and human preferences in the NLU setting. We will focus on the specific case of NLP models that generate text, but the general framework applies to other types of models as well. We start by defining a relation between pairs of texts, which we call the preference relation. Two texts, C 1 and C 2 , are compatible with respect to a model M if the model prefers C 2 to C 1 , i.e., L M C 2 > L M C 1 . The preference matching problem is then to find the pair of texts C * and M * that minimize the difference in the preferences, i.e., We can also define a reward function R that measures how well a pair of texts matches human preferences, with R(C * , M * ) being the satisfaction score of the optimal pair (C * , M * ). The reward function R satisfies a set of properties that are known as the preference axioms, including non-negativity, monotonicity, and the preference of similar texts being greater than or equal