--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", what is Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", what is Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)?<|EOT|>The Group Relative Policy Optimization ( GRPO ) is a reinforcement learning algorithm that can be used to train large language models in a multi-agent setting. It was introduced in the DeepSeekMath paper as a way to train text-to-proofs models.

In GRPO, a group of language models (i.e. agents) compete with each other to produce the best responses to a given prompt. The responses are evaluated by a critic, which assigns scores to the responses based on some quality metric. The agents then update their parameters using policy gradients, where the gradient is computed with respect to the average critic score of the other agents in the group. This encourages the agents to improve their responses in order to outperform the other agents in the same group.

The key idea behind GRPO is to use the other agents in the training batch as a source of supervisory signal. By taking the gradient with respect to the average score of the other agents, the agent learns to generate responses that would cause it to be ranked higher than the average response in the group. This is similar to how backpropagation uses the target output as a supervisory signal to train neural networks.

GRPO is an example of a more general class of algorithms called self-critical reinforcement learning (SCRRL). In SCRRL, the agent uses its own predictions as a supervisory signal, rather than relying on external labels. This makes it possible to train agents to perform tasks for which labeled data is not available, or for which it is difficult to define clear success criteria.

One advantage of GRPO is that it can be used to train language models to perform tasks for which it is difficult or impossible to design explicit reward functions. For example, in the DeepSeekMath study, the researchers used GRPO to train a language model to generate proofs for mathematical theorems, without having to specify exactly what constitutes a "good" proof. Instead, they could let the critic be trained to distinguish between human-written proofs and randomly generated texts, and then use the critic's scores as a supervisory signal for the proof-generating agent.

Another potential advantage of GRPO is its scalability. Because the number of agents in a GRPO training batch can be arbitrarily large, it can be used to scale reinforcement learning to very large language models. This is important because the performance of language models often improves as their size increases, but it also becomes more difficult to train them effectively. By using a multi-agent training objective, GRPO can help to maintain training stability even for very large models.<|endoftext|>
