--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data structure that is used in computer science to efficiently represent sparse matrices. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of blocks, each of which is a sparse matrix. The butterfly structure is used to efficiently represent sparse matrices, which are commonly used in machine learning models. The butterfly structure is also used in the BOFT method to efficiently represent the orthogonal matrices that are used in the finetuning process. The BOFT method is more parameter-efficient than the standard OFT method because it uses the butterfly structure to represent the orthogonal matrices. This means that the BOFT method can use fewer parameters to achieve the same level of performance as the standard OFT method. The BOFT method also has better generalization performance than the standard OFT and block-diagonal OFT methods. This is because the BOFT method uses a more efficient representation of the orthogonal matrices, which leads to a more stable optimization process. The BOFT approach is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning method that is based upon the butterfly structure. The BOFT approach can be used to adapt large models, such as language models, to new tasks. The BOFT approach has been shown to be more parameter-efficient than standard orthogonal finetuning methods, such as OFT and block-diagional OFT. The BOFT approach also has better generalization properties than standard orthogonal finetuneing methods. The BOFT approach uses a butterfly structure to represent the matrices that are used in orthogonal finetuning. The butterfly structure is more efficient than other matrix representations, such as block-diagonal matrices. The BOFT approach achieves better parameter-efficiency and generalization properties by using the butterfly structure to represent matrices. The BOFT method can be used to adapt language models to new tasks, such as question answering and summarization. The BOFT method has been shown to be effective in improving the performance of language models on these tasks. The BOFT method uses a butterfly structure to efficiently represent the matrices that are needed for orthogonal finetuning. This structure is more efficient than block-diagonal matrices, which are commonly<|endoftext|>
