Title: Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Date: September 25, 2025
Docket: No. 2023-2143
Author: Hughes, Circuit Judge

Apex Bank challenges the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board’s denial of its trademark registration applications. Since the Board made errors regarding two factors in the likelihood-of-confusion analysis, we affirm in part, vacate in part, and remand for further proceedings.

I

CC Serve provides credit card services to its clients. J.A. 6927–28. The company owns Registration No. 2126948 for the word mark ASPIRE in association with credit card services. Id. The registration for the ASPIRE mark was granted in 1998, with an established priority date of October 17, 1996. Id. Through the ASPIRE mark, CC Serve delivers credit card services—partnering with a bank, which issues credit cards and manages related accounts bearing the ASPIRE brand for customers. J.A. 6930. CC Serve, together with its affiliates, handles the servicing of these accounts. Id. Apex Bank, meanwhile, is a Tennessee-chartered retail bank. J.A. 7029. Operating 18 branches, Apex Bank offers services such as personal checking and savings accounts, business checking, home mortgage loans, and consumer and business loans. Id. Apex Bank does not provide credit card services. Id. Apex intends to launch an online bank under a separate brand, featuring the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks. J.A. 5243. In August 2019, Apex submitted intent-to-use applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office seeking to register the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for use with “[b]anking and financing services.” J.A. 7027. While these applications were under review, CC Serve filed a letter of protest, arguing that Apex’s proposed marks could cause confusion with CC Serve’s mark. J.A. 4576. Despite this objection, the examining attorney approved both the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for publication, which occurred on December 17, 2019. J.A. 4569–70.

APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. In February 2020, CC Serve filed an opposition to Apex’s trademarks, contending that there was a likelihood of confusion with CC Serve’s standard character mark, ASPIRE. J.A. 2, 6931. The Board granted the opposition pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1052(d), finding that there was a probable risk of consumer confusion between the two marks. J.A. 63. Apex filed an appeal. Our jurisdiction is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1295(a)(4)(B).

II

We examine the Board’s determinations of law using a de novo standard, while its factual determinations are reviewed to see if they are supported by substantial evidence. See M2 Software, Inc. v. M2 Commc’ns, Inc., 450 F.3d 1378, 1382 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal citation omitted). The standard for substantial evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Consol. Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938). In a trademark opposition brought under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, registration must be refused where “confusion is likely because of concurrent use of the marks of an applicant and a prior user on their respective goods.” Application of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Co., 476 F.2d 1357, 1360 (C.C.P.A. 1973). Whether there is a likelihood of confusion is a legal determination that depends on the underlying factual findings concerning the DuPont factors. See M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1381. “Each of the [thirteen] DuPont factors presents a question of fact, findings with regard to which we test for substantial evidence when called into question on appeal.” Bose Corp. v. QSC Audio Prods., Inc., 293 F.3d 1367, 1370 (Fed. Cir. 2002). The Board is only obligated to address those DuPont factors that are “relevant and of record,” and need not evaluate every factor in each case. M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1382.

III

Apex contends on appeal that the Board made errors in its assessment of the likelihood of confusion, particularly regarding its evaluation of the first, second, and sixth DuPont factors. The Board determined that the sixth DuPont factor did not support Apex, whereas the first and second DuPont factors favored CC Serve. J.A. 62–63. We consider each of these factors individually.

A

The second DuPont factor evaluates how similar the goods or services offered by the parties are. It is not necessary that the services be exactly the same; rather, the evidence must demonstrate that “the respective products are related in some manner and/or [that] the circumstances surrounding their marketing are such that they could give rise to the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source.” Coach Servs. Inc. v. Triumph Learning LLC, 668 F.3d 1356, 1369 (Fed. Cir. 2012) (internal citation omitted). The Board examined the similarities between CC Serve’s credit card services and Apex’s banking and financing services. J.A. 24–28. Because the entry for “credit card services” had been removed from the Trademark ID Manual after CC Serve’s registration, the Board first interpreted the meaning of the identified services. The Board concluded that “credit card services” includes “issuing credit cards for use to finance purchases as well as counseling regarding credit card debt, processing credit card payments and transactions, credit card authorization, credit card monitoring and alerts, managing credit card accounts, and providing access to credit scores.” J.A. 25. The Board further found that, since the dictionary definitions for “banking,” “bank,” and “finance” include extending credit or supplying funds through issuing credit cards, Apex’s and CC Serve’s services are “legally identical, in part.” J.A. 27–28. Additionally, the Board reviewed third-party registrations that encompass both (1) credit card services and (2) banking and financing services to reinforce its determination that “the services are of a type that may emanate from a single source under one mark.” J.A. 33–34. Ultimately, the Board found that, given the high level of similarity between the services provided by both parties, the second APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. 5 factor strongly favored a likelihood of confusion. J.A. 35. On appeal, Apex contends that the parties’ services “are not the same and . . . are not directly competitive with each other,” particularly because CC Serve collaborates with banks to administer credit card programs, rather than “providing banking services” itself. Appellant’s Opening Br. 37. We do not find Apex’s argument persuasive. The Board thoroughly considered the respective service descriptions, and substantial evidence backs the Board’s determination that the parties’ services are highly similar. Accordingly, we affirm the Board’s decision with respect to the second DuPont factor.

B

The sixth DuPont factor evaluates “[t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. “Evidence of third-party use of similar marks on similar goods” is pertinent because it demonstrates that a mark may be relatively weak and thus warrants only a limited degree of protection. Palm Bay Imps., Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee En 1772, 396 F.3d 1369, 1373 (Fed. Cir. 2005). When numerous similar marks exist in a field, it is believed that consumers become better able to differentiate among them, decreasing the likelihood of confusion. See Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1338 (Fed. Cir. 2015). If evidence establishes that consumers are accustomed to distinguishing between such marks, this typically suggests that the mark is not commercially strong. See Jack Wolfskin Ausrustung Fur Draussen GmbH & Co. KGAA v. New Millennium Sports, S.L.U., 797 F.3d 1363, 1374 (Fed. Cir. 2015). Apex submitted a number of exhibits to the Board demonstrating third-party uses of marks featuring the word “Aspire.” J.A. 40–46. These marks employed “Aspire” in relation to credit card services as well as, more broadly, financial services. The Board determined that due to the overlap between the services provided by Apex and CC Serve, the relevant public should be defined as “consumers of ‘credit card services.’” J.A. 47. The Board considered exclusively those marks related to credit card services, dismissing those for other services as “essentially irrelevant.” J.A. 47. The Board identified nine marks incorporating “Aspire” in connection with credit card services, but determined that this did not amount to “considerable” or “ubiquitous” use sufficient to show weakness. J.A. 47 (citing Jack Wolfskin, 797 F.3d at 1373, 1373 n.2) (discussing “voluminous evidence” of paw print design element registrations and noting fourteen “notable examples of third-party registration and use”); Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1337 n.1, 1339 (Fed. Cir. 2015) (referring to 26 third-party marks as “a considerable number”)). The Board concluded, “[CC Serve] has not shown that its mark has any particular commercial strength, but [Apex] has not shown that [CC Serve]’s mark is commercially or conceptually weak such that it is entitled to a narrow scope of protection,” and found that CC Serve’s mark deserves the “normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks.” J.A. 51. On appeal, Apex asserts that the Board erred by restricting the relevant public to credit card services consumers and argues that the Board should have accounted for the additional 42 third-party marks incorporating “Aspire” or “Aspire”-formative elements. Appellant’s Opening Br. 28. We concur that the Board’s analysis was legally flawed. The sixth DuPont factor obligates the Board to consider similar marks used for similar goods and services. In its review of the second DuPont factor, see infra Section III.A, the Board found the parties’ services to be highly similar, which led it to conclude that this factor weighed heavily in favor of likely confusion. J.A. 27–28, 33–34. Nevertheless, when considering the sixth DuPont factor, the Board limited its review to marks connected solely to credit card services and excluded those related to other banking and financial services. This was incorrect. We have previously determined that the sixth DuPont factor does not necessitate identical goods—only similar ones. See, e.g., Olde Tyme Foods, Inc. v. Roundy’s, Inc., 961 F.2d 200, 204 (Fed. Cir. 1992); Juice Generation, Inc., 794 F.3d at 1338. In this case, we find that the Board defined similarity too narrowly. Once the Board has made a factual determination that the services in question are highly similar—and indeed, in part legally identical—during the second DuPont factor analysis, J.A. 27–28, it should apply that same breadth in evaluating similarity under other DuPont factors. There is no justification to use a narrower or more rigorous legal standard for similarity under the sixth DuPont factor. Therefore, we vacate the Board’s findings as to the sixth DuPont factor and remand for the Board to reconsider the range

C

The initial DuPont factor examines the “similarity or dissimilarity of the marks in their entireties as to appearance, sound, connotation and commercial impression.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. This inquiry centers on the total commercial impression created by the marks and whether there is a likelihood of confusion regarding the origin of the services identified by each mark. In re I.AM.Symbolic, LLC, 866 F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2017). Since commercial impression is a key aspect of the first DuPont factor, the Board’s analysis must also be vacated here, as a revised consideration of the sixth DuPont factor could lead to a different conclusion about the mark’s commercial strength or weakness and alter the commercial impression. Accordingly, we also remand for further analysis of the first factor.

We have reviewed the additional arguments presented by the parties and do not find them convincing. We uphold the Board’s reasoning on the second DuPont factor, as there was no legal error and substantial evidence backs the Board’s determination that the services provided by the parties are highly similar. However, we set aside the Board’s conclusions regarding DuPont factors six and one, and remand the case so that the Board may evaluate the quantity and character of similar marks in use for similar goods, as well as assess the appearance, sound, meaning, and commercial impression of the marks, taking into account its determination that the services in question are highly similar. AFFIRMED-IN-PART, VACATED-IN-PART, AND

REMANDED

COSTS

Costs to appellant.
