Title: Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Date: September 25, 2025
Docket: No. 2023-2143
Author: Hughes, Circuit Judge

Apex Bank challenges the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board’s denial of registration for Apex’s trademarks. As the Board committed errors in considering two elements of the likelihood-of-confusion assessment, we partially affirm, partially vacate, and remand the case.

I

CC Serve provides customers with credit card services. J.A. 6927–28. The company owns Registration No. 2126948 for the ASPIRE word mark, which it uses for credit card services. Id. The registration for the ASPIRE mark was granted in 1998 and its priority date is October 17, 1996. Id. CC Serve’s credit card services under the ASPIRE mark involve partnerships with banks, through which ASPIRE-branded credit cards and corresponding accounts are issued to customers. J.A. 6930. CC Serve and its affiliates service these accounts. Id. Apex Bank, meanwhile, is a Tennessee-chartered retail bank. J.A. 7029. With 18 branches, Apex offers products such as personal checking and savings accounts, business checking accounts, home mortgages, and loans for both consumers and businesses. Id. Apex does not currently provide credit card services. Id. Apex intends to launch an online bank under a separate brand, employing the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks. J.A. 5243. In August 2019, Apex submitted intent-to-use applications to the United States Patent and Trademark Office to register these ASPIRE BANK marks for “[b]anking and financing services.” J.A. 7027. In response, CC Serve filed a letter of protest during prosecution, arguing that the proposed marks by Apex were likely to cause confusion with CC Serve’s mark. J.A. 4576. Despite this protest, the examining attorney approved the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for publication, and they were published on December 17, 2019. J.A. 4569–70.

APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. In February 2020, CC Serve filed an opposition against Apex’s trademarks, asserting that there was a likelihood of confusion with its own standard character mark, ASPIRE. J.A. 2, 6931. The Board granted the opposition pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1052(d), determining that there was a probable risk of consumer confusion between the marks. J.A. 63. Apex appealed this decision. Our jurisdiction is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1295(a)(4)(B).

II

“We conduct a de novo review of the Board’s conclusions of law, while evaluating its factual determinations to ensure they are supported by substantial evidence.” M2 Software, Inc. v. M2 Commc’ns, Inc., 450 F.3d 1378, 1382 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal citation omitted). Substantial evidence is defined as “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Consol. Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938). Pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, a trademark opposition must result in denial of registration where “confusion is likely because of concurrent use of the marks of an applicant and a prior user on their respective goods.” Application of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Co., 476 F.2d 1357, 1360 (C.C.P.A. 1973). Determining “likelihood of confusion” constitutes a legal issue that rests upon factual findings grounded in the DuPont factors. See M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1381. “Each of the [thirteen] DuPont factors presents a question of fact, findings with regard to which we test for substantial evidence when called into question on appeal.” Bose Corp. v. QSC Audio Prods., Inc., 293 F.3d 1367, 1370 (Fed. Cir. 2002). The Board is required to address only those DuPont factors that are “relevant and of record” and need not consider every factor in its analysis. M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1382.

III

Apex contends on appeal that the Board made errors in its likelihood-of-confusion determination, focusing in particular on its treatment of the second, sixth, and first DuPont factors. The Board determined that the sixth DuPont factor did not support Apex’s position, while the first and second factors favored CC Serve. J.A. 62–63. We consider each of these factors separately below.

A

The second DuPont factor examines how alike the goods or services offered by the parties are. It is not necessary for these services to be exactly the same; the only requirement is proof that “the respective products are related in some manner and/or [that] the circumstances surrounding their marketing are such that they could give rise to the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source.” Coach Servs. Inc. v. Triumph Learning LLC, 668 F.3d 1356, 1369 (Fed. Cir. 2012) (internal citation omitted). The Board evaluated the parallels between CC Serve’s credit card services and Apex’s banking and financing services. J.A. 24–28. Given that “credit card services” was removed from the Trademark ID Manual after CC Serve registered it, the Board first clarified what those services included. According to the Board, “credit card services” include “issuing credit cards for use to finance purchases as well as counseling regarding credit card debt, processing credit card payments and transactions, credit card authorization, credit card monitoring and alerts, managing credit card accounts, and providing access to credit scores.” J.A. 25. The Board further determined, based on dictionary meanings of “banking,” “bank,” and “finance,” that these activities encompass providing credit or funding through credit cards, making Apex and CC Serve’s services “legally identical, in part.” J.A. 27–28. The Board also relied on third-party registrations that offer both (1) credit card and (2) banking and financing services to bolster the conclusion that “the services are of a type that may emanate from a single source under one mark.” J.A. 33–34. Ultimately, the Board concluded that the strong similarity between the parties’ services meant that the second APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. 5 factor weighed significantly in favor of a likelihood of confusion. J.A. 35. On appeal, Apex asserts that the parties’ services “are not the same and . . . are not directly competitive with each other,” emphasizing that CC Serve works with banks to manage credit card programs rather than “providing banking services” on its own. Appellant’s Opening Br. 37. We do not find Apex’s position persuasive. The Board thoroughly reviewed the nature of each party’s offerings, and there is substantial evidence supporting its determination that the services are very similar. We uphold the Board’s determination with regard to the second DuPont factor.

B

The sixth DuPont factor addresses “[t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. “Evidence of third-party use of similar marks on similar goods is relevant to show that a mark is relatively weak and entitled to only a narrow scope of protection.” Palm Bay Imps., Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee En 1772, 396 F.3d 1369, 1373 (Fed. Cir. 2005). When numerous similar marks exist in a given field, the rationale is that consumers are more equipped to discern differences among those marks and are therefore less likely to be confused by the presence of similar ones. See Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1338 (Fed. Cir. 2015). If consumers have learned to differentiate among such marks, this typically implies that the mark is not commercially strong. See Jack Wolfskin Ausrustung Fur Draussen GmbH & Co. KGAA v. New Millennium Sports, S.L.U., 797 F.3d 1363, 1374 (Fed. Cir. 2015). Apex presented several exhibits to the Board showing that various third parties used the word “Aspire” as part of their marks. J.A. 40–46. These uses of “Aspire” were associated with credit card-related offerings and more broadly with financial services. The Board determined that, due to the overlapping nature of Apex and CC Serve’s services, the relevant audience should be defined as “consumers of ‘credit card services.’” J.A. 47. As a result, the Board concentrated exclusively on marks associated with credit card services and found those marks used for other services to be “essentially irrelevant.” J.A. 47. According to the Board, nine Aspire-formative marks existed for credit card services, but it found this number insufficient to demonstrate the “considerable” or “ubiquitous” level of use necessary to establish weakness, as described in Jack Wolfskin, 797 F.3d at 1373, 1373 n.2 (referencing “voluminous evidence” and identifying fourteen “notable examples” of third-party registration and use), and Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1337 n.1, 1339 (Fed. Cir. 2015) (citing 26 third-party marks as “a considerable number”). The Board held that “[CC Serve] has not shown that its mark has any particular commercial strength, but [Apex] has not shown that [CC Serve]’s mark is commercially or conceptually weak such that it is entitled to a narrow scope of protection,” and found CC Serve’s mark receives the “normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks.” J.A. 51. On appeal, Apex claims that the Board erred in restricting the relevant public to those using credit card services and failing to include the 42 additional third-party uses of Aspire and similar marks. Appellant’s Opening Br. 28. We concur that there was a legal error in the Board’s approach. The sixth DuPont factor mandates that the Board must examine similar marks for both similar goods and similar services. When analyzing the second DuPont factor, see infra Section III.A, the Board concluded that the services offered by both parties are highly similar, causing it to find that this factor strongly supported a finding of likelihood of confusion. J.A. 27–28, 33–34. Nevertheless, in considering the sixth DuPont factor, the Board limited its focus only to those marks used with credit card services, thus omitting marks related to other banking and financial services. This was incorrect. This Court has established that the sixth DuPont factor requires only that goods be similar, not necessarily identical. See, e.g., Olde Tyme Foods, Inc. v. Roundy’s, Inc., 961 F.2d 200, 204 (Fed. Cir. 1992); Juice Generation, Inc., 794 F.3d at 1338. In this instance, we determine that the Board interpreted the concept of similarity too narrowly. Having already found that the parties’ services are highly similar and, to some extent, legally identical as per the second DuPont factor (J.A. 27–28), the Board was required to use a correspondingly broad standard when assessing similarity under other relevant factors. We find no justification for applying a stricter legal test for similarity in evaluating the sixth DuPont factor. Therefore, we vacate the Board’s determination concerning this factor and remand for the Board to reassess which third-party marks should be considered, taking into

C

The initial DuPont factor examines how similar or different the marks are as a whole, considering aspects such as appearance, sound, meaning, and the overall commercial impression. See DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. The relevant inquiry centers on the total commercial impression and assesses whether there is a probable likelihood of consumer confusion regarding the origin of the services associated with each mark. See In re I.AM.Symbolic, LLC, 866 F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2017). Since the commercial impression is an integral part of the first DuPont factor's evaluation, we are compelled to vacate the Board’s analysis on this point as well, as a new finding under the sixth DuPont factor could alter the perceived strength or weakness of the mark and consequently influence the overall commercial impression. Accordingly, we remand for reconsideration of the first DuPont factor too.

After reviewing the additional arguments presented by the parties, we determine they lack merit. We uphold the Board’s reasoning regarding the second DuPont factor, as the Board’s legal analysis was correct and there is substantial evidence supporting its conclusion that the services offered by the parties are highly similar. However, we set aside the Board’s determinations related to DuPont factors six and one, remanding the matter for the Board to reconsider both the quantity and nature of similar marks used with comparable goods, as well as the appearance, sound, meaning, and commercial impression of the marks, taking into account its previous conclusion regarding the high degree of similarity between the parties’ services. AFFIRMED-IN-PART, VACATED-IN-PART, AND

REMANDED

COSTS

Costs to appellant.
