Title: Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Date: September 25, 2025
Docket: No. 2023-2143
Author: Hughes, Circuit Judge

Apex Bank challenges the ruling of the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, which denied registration of Apex’s marks. Since the Board made errors in its assessment of two aspects of the likelihood-of-confusion inquiry, we partly affirm, partly vacate, and remand the case for further proceedings.

I

CC Serve is engaged in providing credit card services to its clients. J.A. 6927–28. CC Serve holds Registration No. 2126948 for the trademark ASPIRE, which is registered in association with credit card services. Id. The registration for the ASPIRE mark was granted in 1998 and claims a priority date of October 17, 1996. Id. In offering its credit card services, CC Serve collaborates with a banking partner, which issues credit cards and manages accounts bearing the ASPIRE brand to its consumers. J.A. 6930. The servicing of these accounts is handled by CC Serve and its related entities. Id. Apex Bank, meanwhile, is a retail financial institution incorporated in Tennessee. J.A. 7029. Apex Bank operates 18 branches and provides products including personal and business checking accounts, personal savings accounts, home mortgages, and a variety of consumer and business loans. Id. Apex Bank does not provide credit card products. Id. Apex intends to launch an online banking platform using a different brand, specifically, the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks. J.A. 5243. In August 2019, Apex submitted applications to the United States Patent and Trademark Office based on intent-to-use for registration of the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for use with “[b]anking and financing services.” J.A. 7027. During examination, CC Serve lodged a letter of protest, asserting that Apex’s intended marks were likely to be confused with CC Serve’s existing mark. J.A. 4576. Nevertheless, the examining attorney approved the publication of the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks, and these marks were published on December 17, 2019. J.A. 4569–70.

APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. In February 2020, CC Serve filed an opposition against Apex's trademarks, asserting that there was a likelihood of confusion with CC Serve’s standard character mark, ASPIRE. J.A. 2, 6931. The Board upheld the opposition pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1052(d), finding that it was likely consumers would be confused by the marks. J.A. 63. Apex filed an appeal. Our jurisdiction is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1295(a)(4)(B).

II

We consider the Board’s legal determinations without deference, while reviewing its factual findings to ensure they are supported by substantial evidence. See M2 Software, Inc. v. M2 Commc’ns, Inc., 450 F.3d 1378, 1382 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal citation omitted). The standard of substantial evidence is met by “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Consol. Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938). According to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, a trademark opposition is warranted when simultaneous use of an applicant’s mark and that of a prior user on their respective products would likely result in confusion. Application of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Co., 476 F.2d 1357, 1360 (C.C.P.A. 1973). Determining “likelihood of confusion” constitutes a legal inquiry based on factual findings related to the DuPont factors. M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1381. Each of the thirteen DuPont factors represents a factual question, and any findings regarding them are reviewed for substantial evidence if disputed on appeal. Bose Corp. v. QSC Audio Prods., Inc., 293 F.3d 1367, 1370 (Fed. Cir. 2002). The Board is not obligated to assess all DuPont factors, but need only examine those that are pertinent and part of the record. M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1382.

III

Apex, on appeal, contends that the Board made mistakes in its assessment of the likelihood of confusion, focusing in particular on its consideration of the first, second, and sixth DuPont factors. The Board determined that the sixth DuPont factor was not favorable to Apex, whereas the first and second DuPont factors supported CC Serve. J.A. 62–63. We consider each factor individually below.

A

The second DuPont factor considers how similar the goods or services offered by the parties are. It is not required that the services be the same; the critical inquiry is whether “the respective products are related in some manner and/or [whether] the circumstances surrounding their marketing are such that they could give rise to the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source.” Coach Servs. Inc. v. Triumph Learning LLC, 668 F.3d 1356, 1369 (Fed. Cir. 2012) (internal citation omitted). In this case, the Board compared CC Serve’s credit card services with Apex’s banking and financing services. J.A. 24–28. Because the “credit card services” entry was later removed from the Trademark ID Manual following CC Serve’s registration, the Board initially examined the meaning of the listed services. The Board concluded that “credit card services” includes a range of activities such as issuing credit cards for financing purchases, counseling related to credit card debt, processing credit card payments and transactions, authorizing credit card usage, monitoring and alerting regarding credit card accounts, managing those accounts, and granting access to credit scores. J.A. 25. The Board found that dictionary definitions of “bank,” “banking,” and “finance” include extending credit or funding through credit cards; therefore, the services offered by Apex and CC Serve are “legally identical, in part.” J.A. 27–28. The Board additionally reviewed registrations by third parties that encompass both (1) credit card services and (2) banking and financing services, supporting its determination that “the services are of a type that may emanate from a single source under one mark.” J.A. 33–34. Given the substantial similarity between the parties’ services, the Board determined that the second DuPont factor strongly favored a likelihood of confusion. J.A. 35. On appeal, Apex contends the services are “not the same and . . . are not directly competitive with each other,” emphasizing that CC Serve collaborates with banks to administer credit card programs instead of directly providing banking services itself. Appellant’s Opening Br. 37. We do not find Apex’s argument persuasive. The Board conducted a thorough evaluation of both parties’ service descriptions, and there is substantial evidence to uphold its conclusion that the services are highly similar. Accordingly, we affirm the Board’s determination regarding the second DuPont factor.

B

The sixth DuPont factor evaluates “[t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. Evidence showing that third parties use similar marks on comparable goods is pertinent to determining that a particular mark is relatively weak and thus merits only limited protection. See Palm Bay Imps., Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee En 1772, 396 F.3d 1369, 1373 (Fed. Cir. 2005). In instances where an industry contains numerous similar marks, customers are thought to become more skilled at distinguishing between those marks, decreasing the likelihood of confusion. Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1338 (Fed. Cir. 2015). When consumers have learned to differentiate between such marks, that is indicative of a lack of commercial strength of the mark. See Jack Wolfskin Ausrustung Fur Draussen GmbH & Co. KGAA v. New Millennium Sports, S.L.U., 797 F.3d 1363, 1374 (Fed. Cir. 2015). Apex introduced multiple exhibits before the Board demonstrating third-party use of “Aspire” marks, J.A. 40–46, in connection with credit card services and, more broadly, financial services. The Board determined that, due to overlap between Apex’s and CC Serve’s offerings, the relevant public should be defined as “consumers of ‘credit card services.’” J.A. 47. The Board, therefore, focused exclusively on marks registered for credit card services, disregarding marks related to other financial services as “essentially irrelevant.” J.A. 47. The Board found that there were nine Aspire-formative marks in connection with credit card services, but it concluded that this quantity fell short of being “considerable” or “ubiquitous” to the extent required to establish weakness as described in Jack Wolfskin, 797 F.3d at 1373, 1373 n.2 (discussing “voluminous evidence” and noting fourteen significant third-party registrations and uses); see also Juice Generation, 794 F.3d at 1337 n.1, 1339 (recognizing 26 third-party marks as constituting “a considerable number”). The Board further found that although “[CC Serve] has not shown that its mark has any particular commercial strength,” Apex “has not shown that [CC Serve]’s mark is commercially or conceptually weak such that it is entitled to a narrow scope of protection,” ultimately holding that CC Serve’s mark should receive “the normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks.” J.A. 51. Apex, on appeal, challenges the Board’s restriction of the relevant consumer group to credit card service customers and contends that the Board should have reviewed 42 additional third-party Aspire and Aspire-formative marks. Appellant’s Opening Br. 28. We find merit in Apex’s argument and conclude that the Board’s approach contained a legal error. The sixth DuPont factor obligates the Board to take into account similar marks used for similar—not necessarily identical—goods and services. Notably, in its assessment of the second DuPont factor, see infra Section III.A, the Board found that the parties’ services were highly similar, a fact that caused the second factor to weigh substantially in favor of finding a likelihood of confusion. J.A. 27–28, 33–34. Yet, when addressing the sixth DuPont factor, the Board limited its analysis to only those marks involving credit card services, ignoring marks connected with broader banking and financial offerings. This constituted error. Precedent holds that the sixth DuPont factor covers similar, not solely identical, goods. See Olde Tyme Foods, Inc. v. Roundy’s, Inc., 961 F.2d 200, 204 (Fed. Cir. 1992); Juice Generation, Inc., 794 F.3d at 1338. We conclude that the Board adopted a definition of similarity that is unduly restrictive in this context. Where the Board, in considering the second DuPont factor, has already determined that the services are highly similar or partly legally identical, see J.A. 27–28, the same standard must be applied to analysis of the other DuPont factors. There is no justification for imposing a more restrictive standard of similarity under the sixth factor. Accordingly, we vacate the Board’s conclusion regarding the sixth DuPont factor and remand the matter for further evaluation of the relevant scope of third-party marks, to be determined in light of the Board’s prior factual finding that the parties’ services are highly similar.

C

The initial DuPont factor evaluates the “similarity or dissimilarity of the marks in their entireties as to appearance, sound, connotation and commercial impression.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. This determination centers on the overall commercial impression conveyed and assesses the likelihood that consumers might be confused about the source of the services identified by the respective marks. See In re I.AM.Symbolic, LLC, 866 F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2017). Since commercial impression is integral to the first DuPont factor, we are compelled to vacate the Board’s analysis of this factor as well; reassessment of the sixth DuPont factor could yield a different conclusion regarding the commercial strength or weakness of the mark and thereby alter the overall commercial impression. Accordingly, we remand so that the Board may also reconsider the first factor.

After reviewing the additional arguments raised by the parties, we do not find them convincing. We uphold the Board’s reasoning on the second DuPont factor, as there was no legal error and substantial evidence supports its determination that the parties’ services are very similar. However, we set aside the Board’s conclusions concerning DuPont factors six and one, and remand so the Board may reassess both the quantity and character of comparable marks used on similar goods and also evaluate the marks’ appearance, pronunciation, meaning, and commercial impression, taking into account the Board’s prior finding regarding the high similarity of the services at issue. AFFIRMED-IN-PART, VACATED-IN-PART, AND

REMANDED

COSTS

Costs to appellant.
