Title: Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Date: September 25, 2025
Docket: No. 2023-2143
Author: Hughes, Circuit Judge

Apex Bank seeks review of the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board’s decision denying registration of its marks. We conclude that the Board made errors concerning two of the likelihood-of-confusion factors; therefore, we affirm in part, vacate in part, and remand for further proceedings.

I

CC Serve is a provider of credit card services for consumers. J.A. 6927–28. It holds Registration No. 2126948 for the ASPIRE word mark, which it uses for credit card services. Id. The registration for the ASPIRE mark was granted in 1998, carrying a priority date of October 17, 1996. Id. To offer its credit card services under the ASPIRE mark, CC Serve collaborates with a bank, which issues credit cards and maintains related accounts that display the ASPIRE brand; these accounts are then serviced by CC Serve and its associated entities. J.A. 6930.

Apex Bank, a Tennessee-chartered retail bank, operates 18 branches and provides personal and business checking accounts, savings accounts, mortgage services, and both consumer and business loans. J.A. 7029. Apex Bank does not currently provide credit card services. Id. Apex has developed plans to launch an online banking service under a separate brand, adopting both the ASPIRE BANK word mark and design mark. J.A. 5243. In August 2019, Apex submitted intent-to-use applications to the United States Patent and Trademark Office to seek registration of its ASPIRE BANK marks for “banking and financing services.” J.A. 7027. During the application review process, CC Serve filed a letter of protest, contending that the marks Apex intended to use were likely to be confused with CC Serve’s own mark. J.A. 4576. Nevertheless, the examining attorney approved the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for publication, and the marks were published on December 17, 2019. J.A. 4569–70.

APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. In February 2020, CC Serve filed an opposition to Apex’s trademarks, asserting that they would likely be confused with CC Serve’s standard character mark, ASPIRE. J.A. 2, 6931. The Board upheld the opposition pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1052(d), finding a likelihood of consumer confusion between the marks. J.A. 63. Apex filed an appeal. This court has jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1295(a)(4)(B).

II

Our review of the Board’s legal determinations is de novo, while we examine its factual findings for substantial evidence. See M2 Software, Inc. v. M2 Commc’ns, Inc., 450 F.3d 1378, 1382 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal citation omitted). Substantial evidence is defined as “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Consol. Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938). Pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, trademark registration must be refused in an opposition if “confusion is likely because of concurrent use of the marks of an applicant and a prior user on their respective goods.” Application of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Co., 476 F.2d 1357, 1360 (C.C.P.A. 1973). The determination of “likelihood of confusion” constitutes a question of law, which rests upon findings of underlying fact, specifically those made pursuant to the DuPont factors. M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1381. The thirteen DuPont factors each present distinct factual questions; any such findings challenged on appeal are reviewed for substantial evidence. Bose Corp. v. QSC Audio Prods., Inc., 293 F.3d 1367, 1370 (Fed. Cir. 2002). The Board is not required to address all DuPont factors, but rather only those “that are relevant and of record.” M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1382.

III

Apex contends on appeal that the Board made errors in its analysis concerning the likelihood of confusion, focusing on the evaluation of the second, sixth, and first DuPont factors. The Board determined that the sixth DuPont factor did not support Apex, while finding that the first and second DuPont factors favored CC Serve. J.A. 62–63. We will consider each of these factors individually.

A

The second DuPont factor examines whether the goods and/or services offered by the parties are similar. The goods and services at issue do not need to be exactly the same; it is sufficient if “the respective products are related in some manner and/or [if] the circumstances surrounding their marketing are such that they could give rise to the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source.” Coach Servs. Inc. v. Triumph Learning LLC, 668 F.3d 1356, 1369 (Fed. Cir. 2012) (internal citation omitted). The Board compared the similarities between CC Serve’s credit card services and Apex’s banking and financing services. J.A. 24–28. Since “credit card services” was removed from the Trademark ID Manual following CC Serve’s registration, the Board first interpreted the scope of those identified services. The Board concluded that “credit card services” includes “issuing credit cards for use to finance purchases as well as counseling regarding credit card debt, processing credit card payments and transactions, credit card authorization, credit card monitoring and alerts, managing credit card accounts, and providing access to credit scores.” J.A. 25. According to the Board, dictionary definitions for the terms “banking,” “bank,” and “finance” all involve extending credit or issuing credit cards, thereby establishing that Apex’s and CC Serve’s services are “legally identical, in part.” J.A. 27–28. The Board also examined third-party registrations that include both (1) credit card and (2) banking and financing services, supporting its determination that “the services are of a type that may emanate from a single source under one mark.” J.A. 33–34. Based on the strong similarity between the services, the Board found that the second DuPont factor strongly favored a likelihood of confusion. J.A. 35. On appeal, Apex contends that the parties’ services are “not the same and . . . are not directly competitive with each other,” emphasizing that CC Serve collaborates with banks in managing credit card programs and is “not providing banking services” itself. Appellant’s Opening Br. 37. We do not find Apex’s position persuasive. The Board conducted a thorough analysis of each party’s service descriptions, and substantial evidence supports its determination that the services are highly similar. We therefore affirm the Board’s conclusion regarding the second DuPont factor.

B

The sixth DuPont factor examines “[t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. “Evidence of third-party use of similar marks on similar goods is relevant to show that a mark is relatively weak and entitled to only a narrow scope of protection.” Palm Bay Imps., Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee En 1772, 396 F.3d 1369, 1373 (Fed. Cir. 2005). When many similar marks coexist in a marketplace, it is assumed that consumers develop the ability to discern distinctions among marks and are less likely to become confused. See Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1338 (Fed. Cir. 2015). Evidence indicating consumers are trained to differentiate between such marks weighs against a finding of commercial strength. See Jack Wolfskin Ausrustung Fur Draussen GmbH & Co. KGAA v. New Millennium Sports, S.L.U., 797 F.3d 1363, 1374 (Fed. Cir. 2015).

Apex submitted several pieces of evidence to the Board reflecting third-party usage of marks including the word “Aspire.” J.A. 40–46. These marks incorporated “Aspire” in association with credit card-related offerings as well as more generally in the financial services sector. The Board, noting the overlap between Apex and CC Serve’s services, identified “consumers of ‘credit card services’” as the correct relevant public. J.A. 47. It concentrated exclusively on marks registered for credit card services, and considered marks associated with other financial or banking services as “essentially irrelevant.” J.A. 47.

The Board identified nine Aspire-formative marks utilized for credit card services but found that the presence of only nine such uses fell short of the “considerable” or “ubiquitous” third-party use necessary to show weakness, as established by precedent. J.A. 47 (citing Jack Wolfskin, 797 F.3d at 1373, 1373 n.2, noting “voluminous evidence” and fourteen “notable examples of third-party registration and use”; Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1337 n.1, 1339 (Fed. Cir. 2015), finding 26 third-party marks a “considerable number”). Accordingly, the Board held that “[CC Serve] has not shown that its mark has any particular commercial strength, but [Apex] has not shown that [CC Serve]’s mark is commercially or conceptually weak such that it is entitled to a narrow scope of protection,” and thus concluded the mark “is entitled to the ‘normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks.’” J.A. 51.

On appeal, Apex challenges the Board’s restriction of the relevant public to users of credit card services and argues the Board should have taken into account the 42 additional third-party marks using “Aspire” and similar terms. Appellant’s Opening Br. 28. We find the Board’s analysis legally deficient. The sixth DuPont factor obligates the Board to consider similar marks on similar goods and services. In its analysis of the second DuPont factor, see infra Section III.A, the Board had already determined that the parties’ services are highly similar, even “partially legally identical,” thus weighing the factor strongly in favor of a likelihood of confusion. J.A. 27–28, 33–34. Yet, in its review of the sixth DuPont factor, the Board limited its assessment to marks for credit card services only and disregarded those related to broader banking and financing services. This approach was mistaken. Our precedent clarifies that the sixth DuPont factor does not demand goods be identical—mere similarity suffices. See, e.g., Olde Tyme Foods, Inc. v. Roundy’s, Inc., 961 F.2d 200, 204 (Fed. Cir. 1992); Juice Generation, Inc., 794 F.3d at 1338. Here, we conclude the Board interpreted similarity too narrowly. Once the Board has already found the services to be highly similar, even “partially legally identical,” under the second DuPont factor (J.A. 27–28), it should adopt the same scope when evaluating similarity under the remaining factors. We see no justification for imposing a stricter test of similarity for the sixth DuPont factor. Thus, we vacate the Board’s ruling on the sixth DuPont factor and remand for the Board to reconsider the proper range of third-party marks to evaluate, in light of the factual finding that the parties’ services

C

The initial DuPont factor evaluates how alike or different the marks are as a whole, with respect to their look, pronunciation, meaning, and the general impression they create in the marketplace. DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. This inquiry emphasizes the total commercial impression made by the marks and assesses whether there is a likelihood of confusion about the origin of the services identified by the marks. In re I.AM.Symbolic, LLC, 866 F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2017). Since commercial impression is integral to the assessment under the first DuPont factor, we are compelled to set aside the Board’s consideration here as well, because a new evaluation of the sixth DuPont factor could lead to a different view on the strength or weakness of the mark, thereby impacting the commercial impression. As a result, we also remand for further analysis of the first factor.

We have reviewed the other arguments presented by the parties and do not find them convincing. We uphold the Board’s reasoning on the second DuPont factor because the Board applied the correct legal standard and its determination that the services offered by the parties are highly similar is backed by substantial evidence. However, we set aside the Board’s determinations concerning the sixth and first DuPont factors and remand for the Board to evaluate both the quantity and character of similar marks used on comparable goods, as well as the visual appearance, pronunciation, meaning, and overall commercial impression of the marks, taking into account its conclusion regarding the high similarity of the services involved. AFFIRMED IN PART, VACATED IN PART, AND

REMANDED

COSTS

Costs to appellant.
