Case Title: Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Date: September 25, 2025
Docket Number: 2023-2143
Opinion by: Circuit Judge Hughes

Apex Bank challenges the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board’s denial of registration for its marks. As the Board made mistakes regarding two elements of the likelihood-of-confusion assessment, we partially affirm, partially vacate, and remand for further proceedings.

I

CC Serve provides credit card services to consumers. J.A. 6927–28. It holds Registration No. 2126948 for the trademark ASPIRE, which is used in relation to credit card services. Id. The ASPIRE trademark was registered in 1998, with a priority date established as October 17, 1996. Id. In connection with the ASPIRE mark, CC Serve partners with a bank that issues credit cards and accounts bearing the ASPIRE brand to its customers, while CC Serve and its affiliates manage these accounts. J.A. 6930. Apex Bank, a retail bank headquartered in Tennessee, maintains 18 branches and provides personal and business checking accounts, personal savings, home mortgages, as well as consumer and commercial loans. J.A. 7029. Apex does not currently offer credit card services. Id. Apex intends to launch an online bank under another brand using the ASPIRE BANK word and design trademarks. J.A. 5243. In August 2019, Apex submitted intent-to-use applications to the United States Patent and Trademark Office to register the ASPIRE BANK word and design trademarks for “[b]anking and financing services.” J.A. 7027. While these applications were pending, CC Serve filed a letter of protest, claiming that Apex’s proposed marks could be mistaken for CC Serve’s mark. J.A. 4576. Despite the protest, the examining attorney approved the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for publication, and the marks were published on December 17, 2019. J.A. 4569–70.

APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. In February 2020, CC Serve filed an opposition challenging Apex’s trademarks, contending that they were likely to be confused with CC Serve’s standard character mark, ASPIRE. J.A. 2, 6931. The Board found in favor of CC Serve’s opposition pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1052(d), determining that there was a probability of consumer confusion between the respective marks. J.A. 63. Apex appealed this decision. Our jurisdiction is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1295(a)(4)(B).

II

Our review of the Board’s legal determinations is conducted de novo, whereas we examine its factual findings under the substantial evidence standard. See M2 Software, Inc. v. M2 Commc’ns, Inc., 450 F.3d 1378, 1382 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal citation omitted). Substantial evidence consists of “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Consol. Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938). Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act provides that a trademark opposition will result in refusal of registration if “confusion is likely because of concurrent use of the marks of an applicant and a prior user on their respective goods.” Application of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Co., 476 F.2d 1357, 1360 (C.C.P.A. 1973). Determining likelihood of confusion is a legal question founded on the resolution of underlying factual issues identified by the DuPont factors. See M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1381. Each of the thirteen DuPont factors involves a factual determination that we review for substantial evidence when challenged in an appeal. Bose Corp. v. QSC Audio Prods., Inc., 293 F.3d 1367, 1370 (Fed. Cir. 2002). The Board is not obligated to address each DuPont factor, but must consider only those “that are relevant and of record.” M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1382.

III

Apex contends on appeal that the Board incorrectly evaluated the likelihood of confusion, particularly in its consideration of the first, second, and sixth DuPont factors. The Board determined that the sixth DuPont factor did not support Apex’s position, while the first and second DuPont factors favored CC Serve. J.A. 62–63. We will examine each of these factors individually.

A

The second DuPont factor examines how similar the goods and/or services offered by the parties are. It is not required that the services be exactly the same—rather, it suffices to show that “the respective products are related in some manner and/or [that] the circumstances surrounding their marketing are such that they could give rise to the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source.” Coach Servs. Inc. v. Triumph Learning LLC, 668 F.3d 1356, 1369 (Fed. Cir. 2012) (internal citation omitted). Here, the Board analyzed the relationship between credit card services, which are provided by CC Serve, and banking and financing services, which are provided by Apex. J.A. 24–28. Given that “credit card services” was removed from the Trademark ID Manual after CC Serve registered it, the Board began by interpreting the scope of these identified services. The Board found that “credit card services” includes “issuing credit cards for use to finance purchases as well as counseling regarding credit card debt, processing credit card payments and transactions, credit card authorization, credit card monitoring and alerts, managing credit card accounts, and providing access to credit scores.” J.A. 25. Further, the Board determined that the dictionary definitions for “banking,” “bank,” and “finance” include activities such as extending credit or supplying funds by issuing credit cards, and therefore, some of Apex’s and CC Serve’s services are “legally identical, in part.” J.A. 27–28. In addition, the Board looked at third-party registrations covering both (1) credit card services and (2) banking and financing services to reinforce its position that “the services are of a type that may emanate from a single source under one mark.” J.A. 33–34. Ultimately, because of the significant similarities between the services provided by the parties, the Board found that the second DuPont factor heavily favored a likelihood of confusion. J.A. 35. On appeal, Apex contends that the parties’ services differ and are not in direct competition, asserting that CC Serve collaborates with banks to operate credit card programs rather than offering banking services independently. Appellant’s Opening Br. 37. We are not persuaded by Apex’s position. The Board thoroughly reviewed each party’s service descriptions, and its conclusion that the services are highly similar is supported by substantial evidence. We therefore uphold the Board’s finding regarding the second DuPont factor.

B

The sixth DuPont factor examines “[t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. As established in Palm Bay Imps., Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee En 1772, 396 F.3d 1369, 1373 (Fed. Cir. 2005), “[e]vidence of third-party use of similar marks on similar goods is relevant to show that a mark is relatively weak and entitled to only a narrow scope of protection.” When many similar marks coexist within a field, the rationale is that consumers become adept at distinguishing between the different marks and, therefore, confusion is less likely. See Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1338 (Fed. Cir. 2015). When consumers can differentiate among marks in this context, this serves as evidence that the mark in question is not commercially strong. See Jack Wolfskin Ausrustung Fur Draussen GmbH & Co. KGAA v. New Millennium Sports, S.L.U., 797 F.3d 1363, 1374 (Fed. Cir. 2015). Apex presented evidence to the Board, consisting of multiple exhibits indicating third-party use of marks containing the word “Aspire.” J.A. 40–46. These marks utilized “Aspire” in association with credit card services and also within the wider financial services sector. The Board concluded that, due to overlap in the services offered by Apex and CC Serve, the appropriate relevant public consists of “consumers of ‘credit card services.’” J.A. 47. The Board limited its examination to marks associated specifically with credit card services, regarding marks related to other services as “essentially irrelevant.” J.A. 47. According to the Board, there were nine instances of Aspire-formative marks being used for credit card services, but it concluded that this number was insufficient to constitute the level of “considerable” or “ubiquitous” third-party use necessary to establish weakness. J.A. 47 (citing Jack Wolfskin, 797 F.3d at 1373, 1373 n.2; Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1337 n.1, 1339 (Fed. Cir. 2015)). The Board determined that “[CC Serve] has not shown that its mark has any particular commercial strength, but [Apex] has not shown that [CC Serve]’s mark is commercially or conceptually weak such that it is entitled to a narrow scope of protection,” ultimately finding the mark deserving of the “normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks.” J.A. 51. Apex argues on appeal that the Board mistakenly limited the relevant market to only credit card service consumers and should have evaluated the additional 42 third-party “Aspire” and Aspire-formative marks. Appellant’s Opening Br. 28. We concur that the Board’s approach constitutes a legal error. The sixth DuPont factor requires assessment of similar marks on similar—not identical—goods and services. As discussed in our review of the second DuPont factor (see infra Section III.A), the Board found the parties’ services to be highly similar, supporting its finding that likelihood of confusion was likely. J.A. 27–28, 33–34. Yet, for the sixth DuPont factor, the Board constrained its review solely to credit card services, disregarding marks linked to other banking and financial services—this was erroneous. Our precedents clarify that the sixth DuPont factor considers similarity, not identity, of the goods. See, e.g., Olde Tyme Foods, Inc. v. Roundy’s, Inc., 961 F.2d 200, 204 (Fed. Cir. 1992); Juice Generation, Inc., 794 F.3d at 1338. Here, the Board adopted an unduly restrictive interpretation of similarity. Having previously found, in considering the second DuPont factor, that the services at issue were highly similar and even partially legally identical, J.A. 27–28, the Board should have applied the same breadth in evaluating similarity under other factors. There is no basis for adopting a narrower or heightened legal standard of similarity for the sixth DuPont factor. Accordingly, we vacate the Board’s decision regarding the sixth DuPont factor and remand for reconsideration, instructing the Board to reevaluate the appropriate range of third-party marks in light of its finding that the parties’ services are highly similar.

C

The initial DuPont factor examines whether the marks, when viewed in their entirety, are alike or different in terms of their appearance, pronunciation, meaning, and overall commercial impression. DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. This assessment centers on the total commercial impression and the likelihood that consumers would be confused regarding the origin of the services provided under the respective marks. In re I.AM.Symbolic, LLC, 866 F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2017). Since the first DuPont factor is informed by the commercial impression, we must also set aside the Board’s analysis on this factor, as reassessment of the sixth DuPont factor could alter the evaluation of the mark’s commercial strength or weakness, thereby impacting the commercial impression. As a result, we also remand for the Board to reconsider its analysis of the first factor.

After reviewing the parties’ additional arguments, we conclude they lack merit. We uphold the Board’s assessment regarding the second DuPont factor, as the Board properly applied the law and its determination that the parties’ services are highly similar is supported by substantial evidence. However, we set aside the Board’s conclusions concerning DuPont factors six and one, and we remand so the Board may reconsider the quantity and characteristics of similar marks in use on similar goods, as well as the marks’ appearance, sound, connotation, and commercial impression, taking into account its determination that the parties’ services are highly similar. AFFIRMED-IN-PART, VACATED-IN-PART, AND

REMANDED

COSTS

Costs to appellant.
