Title: Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Date: September 25, 2025
Docket: No. 2023-2143
Author: Hughes, Circuit Judge

Apex Bank challenges a ruling by the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board that denied registration of its trademarks. As the Board made mistakes in evaluating two of the likelihood-of-confusion factors, we partially affirm, partially vacate, and remand the case for further proceedings.

I

CC Serve provides customers with credit card services. J.A. 6927–28. It owns Registration No. 2126948 for the ASPIRE word mark, which it uses for credit card services. Id. This registration was granted in 1998 and claims a priority date of October 17, 1996. Id. In delivering its credit card services, CC Serve partners with a bank that issues credit cards and corresponding accounts bearing the ASPIRE brand to clients. J.A. 6930. CC Serve and its affiliates handle the servicing of these accounts. Id. Apex Bank is a retail banking institution incorporated in Tennessee. J.A. 7029. Apex operates 18 branches and provides services such as personal and business checking accounts, savings accounts, home mortgages, as well as consumer and business loans. Id. Apex does not provide credit card products. Id. The bank intends to launch an internet banking platform under a new brand, using both the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks. J.A. 5243. In August 2019, Apex submitted intent-to-use applications to the United States Patent and Trademark Office to register these ASPIRE BANK marks for “[b]anking and financing services.” J.A. 7027. While those applications were under review, CC Serve filed a letter of protest, contending that Apex’s proposed marks were likely to cause confusion with its own mark. J.A. 4576. Despite this, the examining attorney allowed the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks to proceed to publication, which occurred on December 17, 2019. J.A. 4569–70.

APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. In February 2020, CC Serve filed an opposition to Apex’s trademarks, contending that there existed a likelihood of confusion with its standard character mark, ASPIRE. J.A. 2, 6931. The Board upheld the opposition pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1052(d), determining that the marks were likely to cause confusion among consumers. J.A. 63. Apex filed an appeal. Our court’s jurisdiction is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1295(a)(4)(B).

II

“We conduct a de novo review of the Board’s determinations of law, while we examine its factual findings to ensure they are supported by substantial evidence.” M2 Software, Inc. v. M2 Commc’ns, Inc., 450 F.3d 1378, 1382 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal citation omitted). Substantial evidence refers to “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Consol. Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938). Pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, a trademark opposition is warranted if registration must be refused because “confusion is likely because of concurrent use of the marks of an applicant and a prior user on their respective goods.” Application of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Co., 476 F.2d 1357, 1360 (C.C.P.A. 1973). Determining the “likelihood of confusion” constitutes a legal question that relies on the underlying factual findings, particularly those determined under the DuPont factors. M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1381. “Each of the [thirteen] DuPont factors presents a question of fact, findings with regard to which we test for substantial evidence when called into question on appeal.” Bose Corp. v. QSC Audio Prods., Inc., 293 F.3d 1367, 1370 (Fed. Cir. 2002). The Board is not required to address every DuPont factor, but only those that are pertinent and supported by the record. M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1382.

III

Apex contends on appeal that the Board made errors in its likelihood-of-confusion determination, particularly regarding its evaluation of the first, second, and sixth DuPont factors. The Board determined that the sixth DuPont factor did not support Apex’s position, while the first and second DuPont factors favored CC Serve. J.A. 62–63. We examine each of these factors individually.

A

The second DuPont factor examines the degree of similarity between the goods and/or services offered by the parties. It is not necessary for the services to be exactly the same; rather, it is sufficient to show that “the respective products are related in some manner and/or [that] the circumstances surrounding their marketing are such that they could give rise to the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source.” Coach Servs. Inc. v. Triumph Learning LLC, 668 F.3d 1356, 1369 (Fed. Cir. 2012) (internal citation omitted). The Board compared credit card services provided by CC Serve with the banking and financing services offered by Apex. J.A. 24–28. Since “credit card services” was removed from the Trademark ID Manual after CC Serve’s registration, the Board first interpreted the scope of these services. The Board found that “credit card services” includes activities such as “issuing credit cards for use to finance purchases as well as counseling regarding credit card debt, processing credit card payments and transactions, credit card authorization, credit card monitoring and alerts, managing credit card accounts, and providing access to credit scores.” J.A. 25. The Board further determined that dictionary definitions for “banking,” “bank,” and “finance” include extending credit or providing funds through issuing credit cards, leading to the conclusion that Apex’s and CC Serve’s services are “legally identical, in part.” J.A. 27–28. The Board also reviewed third-party registrations covering both (1) credit card and (2) banking and financing services to reinforce its view that “the services are of a type that may emanate from a single source under one mark.” J.A. 33–34. The Board ultimately concluded that the substantial similarity between the parties’ services meant the second APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. 5 factor strongly supported a finding of likelihood of confusion. J.A. 35. On appeal, Apex contends that the services offered by the parties are “not the same and . . . are not directly competitive with each other,” emphasizing that CC Serve collaborates with banks to administer credit card programs and does not itself offer banking services. Appellant’s Opening Br. 37. We are not persuaded by Apex’s argument. The Board conducted a thorough analysis of both parties’ service descriptions, and substantial evidence supports its finding that the services are highly similar. Accordingly, we affirm the Board’s conclusion regarding the second DuPont factor.

B

The sixth DuPont factor examines “[t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. Evidence indicating third-party use of analogous marks for comparable goods is pertinent because it may suggest a mark is relatively weak and thus only deserves a limited range of protection. See Palm Bay Imps., Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee En 1772, 396 F.3d 1369, 1373 (Fed. Cir. 2005). Where the market is saturated with similar marks, it is presumed that consumers are better equipped to differentiate between them, thereby diminishing the likelihood of confusion. See Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1338 (Fed. Cir. 2015). Furthermore, evidence demonstrating that consumers have learned to tell marks apart typically indicates a lack of commercial strength. See Jack Wolfskin Ausrustung Fur Draussen GmbH & Co. KGAA v. New Millennium Sports, S.L.U., 797 F.3d 1363, 1374 (Fed. Cir. 2015). Apex presented multiple exhibits before the Board showing third parties using marks containing the term “Aspire.” J.A. 40–46. These marks utilized “Aspire” in relation to credit card-related services, as well as more broadly in the financial services sector. The Board determined that, due to the overlapping services between Apex and CC Serve, the relevant consumer group consisted of “consumers of ‘credit card services.’” J.A. 47. The Board limited its focus to marks associated specifically with credit card services and disregarded those used for other financial services as “essentially irrelevant.” J.A. 47. Ultimately, the Board found there were nine Aspire-formative marks for credit card services, but held that this number did not amount to the “considerable” or “ubiquitous” third-party use previously found to signal weakness. J.A. 47 (citing Jack Wolfskin, 797 F.3d at 1373, 1373 n.2) (discussing “voluminous evidence” involving paw print designs and citing fourteen significant third-party examples); Juice Generation, Inc. v. GS Enters. LLC, 794 F.3d 1334, 1337 n.1, 1339 (Fed. Cir. 2015) (labeling 26 third-party marks as “a considerable number”). The Board concluded, “[CC Serve] has not shown that its mark has any particular commercial strength, but [Apex] has not shown that [CC Serve]’s mark is commercially or conceptually weak such that it is entitled to a narrow scope of protection,” and therefore CC Serve’s mark should receive the “normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks.” J.A. 51. On appeal, Apex asserts that the Board erred by restricting the relevant consumer base to those using credit card services, and argues the Board should have also considered the 42 other third-party Aspire and Aspire-formative marks. Appellant’s Opening Br. 28. We concur that the Board’s approach was legally incorrect. The sixth DuPont factor obligates the Board to examine similar marks for similar goods and services. In its analysis of the second DuPont factor, see infra Section III.A, the Board found the parties’ services to be highly similar, leading to a determination that this factor strongly favored a likelihood of confusion. J.A. 27–28, 33–34. However, in evaluating the sixth DuPont factor, the Board narrowed its analysis to only marks pertaining to credit card services and excluded those relating to other banking and financing services. This constituted error. Precedent holds that the sixth DuPont factor does not mandate the goods be identical—only similar. See, e.g., Olde Tyme Foods, Inc. v. Roundy’s, Inc., 961 F.2d 200, 204 (Fed. Cir. 1992); Juice Generation, Inc., 794 F.3d at 1338. In this case, we find the Board’s interpretation of similarity unduly restrictive. Having previously determined, as a factual matter, that the services are highly similar—indeed, partially legally identical—in its analysis of the second DuPont factor, J.A. 27–28, the Board should apply the same definition of similarity in considering the remaining factors. There is no basis to adopt a stricter legal standard for similarity under the sixth DuPont factor. Accordingly, we vacate the Board’s determination regarding the sixth DuPont factor and remand for further consideration of which third-party marks should be included, consistent with the Board’s prior factual finding that the services at issue are highly

C

The initial DuPont factor evaluates how alike or different the marks are as a whole, taking into account their appearance, pronunciation, meaning, and the overall commercial impression they create. DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361. This examination centers on the total commercial impression and assesses whether there is a likelihood of confusion regarding the origin of the services identified by the respective marks. In re I.AM.Symbolic, LLC, 866 F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2017). Since the commercial impression plays a key role in analyzing the first DuPont factor, we must also set aside the Board’s analysis of this factor, as a revised evaluation of the sixth DuPont factor could alter the determination of the mark’s commercial strength or weakness and thereby influence the overall commercial impression. Accordingly, we also remand for the Board to reconsider the first factor.

After reviewing the parties' additional arguments, we find them unconvincing. We uphold the Board’s determination regarding the second DuPont factor, concluding that the Board applied the correct legal standard and that substantial evidence underpins its conclusion that the services offered by the parties are highly similar. However, we set aside the Board’s determinations regarding DuPont factors six and one, and we remand for further consideration by the Board concerning the quantity and character of similar marks used in connection with similar goods, as well as the marks’ appearance, pronunciation, meaning, and overall commercial impression, particularly in view of the Board’s finding that the parties’ services are highly similar. The decision is AFFIRMED IN PART, VACATED IN PART, AND

REMANDED

COSTS

Costs to appellant.
