--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is a technique for quantizing large language models (LLMs) during finetuning while maintaining the original model's performance. The technique is based on the assumption that the gradients of the LLM parameters with respect to the token embeddings are small, allowing for the use of lower-bit representations for these parameters. QLoRA employs a hybrid 4-bit/8-bit weight representation and an 8-bit embedding representation, resulting in a 12-bit model. This is a significant improvement over the previous best 11-bit model. Furthermore, QLoRA employs a loss scaling technique that eliminates the need for zero padding, resulting in a 2-bit memory savings. As a result, QLoRA can train a 7B model using 26 GB of memory and a 28B model using 49 GB of memory. In terms of performance, QLoRA 7B matches the performance of a 16-bit finetuned 26B model and outperforms it in some cases. On the other hand, the 28B QLoRA model outperforms a 16-bit finituned 34B model. This is the first time a 28B model has been finetuned to match the performance of a 34B model. The paper also presents a new benchmarking methodology for quantized LLMs that takes into account both inference and finetuning memory usage. According to the findings, QLoRA can be used to finetune a 65B model using 150 GB of memory. This is the largest model that has ever been finetuned with a memory usage below 150 GB. The paper also includes a comprehensive analysis of the 28B and 65B QLoRA models. Finally, the paper provides a comprehensive study of zero paddi

Formalizing the Problem
The goal of this paper is to train a model with parameters θ using a training set D = {x 1 , x 2 , . . . , x n } using a parameter update rule of the form: where θ 0 is the initial model parameters, L(·) is the loss function, and α(·) is the learning rate schedule. In this paper, we are interested in the case where θ 0 are pretrained weights obtained from a large pretrained model and we are interested in the memory usage of this training procedure. In this paper, the pretrained model is always a 16-bit model, and we are interested in finding a way to train this model using less memory. There are two main sources of memory usage in this training procedure: the memory used to store the weights θ and the memory used to store their gradients ∇ θ L(θ). In what follows, we will refer to these two sources of memory as weight memory and gradient memory respectively. In this paper, our goal is to train a model of size 7B using as little memory as possible. To put this in context, a 7B model with 16-bit weights and gradients requires 87 GB of memory. Our goal is to train this model using as little memory as we can.

Quantization of Weights
The most straightforward way to reduce the memory usage of the weights is to quantize them. Quantization is the process of converting a weight from a high-bit precision to a lower-bit precision. Formally, we can represent a weight w as a vector of floating point numbers of size B bits as: where b i is the i th component of the weight vector and b i is a number in the range [−2 B , 2 B ). In standard practice, the weights are usually represented using 16-bit floating point numbers (also known as FP16). In this paper, we will consider representing the weights using 4-bit integers (also known as Int4), 8-bit integers (also known a Int8), and 16-bit integers (also known Int16). The main disadvantage of using integers to represent weights is that they do not have an exact representation of zero. For example, an Int8 weight can have the value 0, but it can also have the value -128 or 127. To overcome this problem, we can use a zero padding scheme where we add a small constant ε to all the weights to ensure that they are all positive. This means that we will need to store ε in memory as well. Another option is to use a mixed precision scheme where we store the weights as FP16 but we only use the integer part of the FP16 number. This means that we can represent zero exactly and we do not need to store a zero padding constant. The main disadvantage of this scheme is that it requires more memory than an Int8 scheme. In this paper, all the experiments with integer weights use a zero padding scheme and all the experiments with mixed precision weights use an Int8 scheme.

Gradient Memory Usage
The standard way to calculate the gradient of the loss with respect to the weights is to use the chain rule and to calculate the gradient of each neuron with respect to
