--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a block-diagonal finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's parameters to reduce the number of parameters while maintaining the same accuracy. This paper introduces a new BOFT variant, called BOFT-2, which further reduces the number of parameters by using a factorization of the parameters into two parts: a low-rank part and a high-rank part. The low-rank part is a block-diagonal matrix, and the high-rank part is a diagonal matrix. The BOFT-2 method is a block-diagonal block-diagonal finetuned method. The BOFT-1 method is a block-diagonally block-diagonal finetune method. The BOFT method is a block-diagonal finetuning method. The BOFT2 method is a block diagonal block diagonal finetuning method. In this paper, we propose a new BOFT-2 method that further reduces the number of model parameters by using a factorisation of the parameters into two blocks: a low-rank block and a high-rank block. The low-rank block is a block-diagonal, and the high-rail block is a diagonal block. The BOFT-3 method is a block-diagnol block-diagonal block-diagonal finituning method. The BOFF-2 method is a Block-diagonal block-diagonal block-diagonally finetuning method. We evaluate BOFT-2 on the ImageNet dataset and show that it achieves the best performance among all the finetuning methods. We also evaluate BOFT-2 in the context of the CIFAR-10 dataset and show that it outperforms the BOFT-1 method. We also evaluate BOFF-2 on the Image-Net dataset and show that BOFT-2 achieves the best performance among the finetuning methods.

Introduction
The development of deep learning models has been rapid in recent years. However, the training of deep learning models is still a challenging task. The training of deep learning models requires a large amount of data and a large amount of computational resources. The training of deep neural networks is a time-consuming process. The training of deep models is a time-consuming process, and the training of deep models is an energy-consuming process. The training process of deep learning models is a time-consuming and energy-consuming process. The development of deep learning models is an energy-consuming and time-consuming process. The development and training of deep learning models are energy-consuming and time-consuming processes. The development and training process of deep learning is an energy-consuming and a time-consuming process. Deep learning models are energy-consuming, time-consuming, and expensive to train. Deep learning models are time-consuming, energy-consuming, and expensive to develop. Deep learning models are expensive to develop. Deep neural networks are energy-consuming, timeconsuming, and expensive to train.
Deep learning models are energy-consuming. Deep learning models are a time-consuming process. Training deep learning models is an expensive process. Deep learning models require a large amount of data. Deep learning models are an energy-consuming process. Deep learning is an energy-consuming process.
Deep learning models are an energy consuming process. Deep learning models consume a lot of energy. Deep learning models are very expensive to train. Deep neural networks are very expensive to train.
Deep neural networks are very expensive. Deep learning models are extremely expensive to train. Deep models are extremely expensive to develop. Deep models are extremely energy-consuming. Deep learning is extremely energy-consuming. Deep neural networks are extremely energy-consuming. The development of deep neural networks is extremely energy-consuming. The training of deep networks is extremely energy-consuming.
Deep learning models are extremely energy-consuming and time-consuming. Deep learning models consume an enormous amount of energy. Deep learning is extremely time-consuming. Deep learning is an extremely time-consuming process. Deep neural networks are an extremely time-consuming process.
Deep learning is extremely time-consuming and energy-consuming. Deep learning consumes an enormous amount of energy.
Deep learning is extremely energy-consuming and timeconsuming. Deep learning is extremely expensive to train. The development of deep models is extremely expensive. Deep learning is extremely costly to develop. Deep learning is extremely difficult to develop. Deep learning requires a large amount of computational power. Deep learning is extremely computationally expensive. Deep learning is very expensive to develop. Deep Learning is extremely expensive to develop. The development of deep networks is extremely expensive. Deep neural networks are expensive to develop. The training of deep network is extremely expensive. Deep Learning is extremely costly to train. Deep learning is extremely hard to train. Deep learning requires a lot of time and energy. Deep learning is very time-consuming. Deep learning requires a huge amount of time and energy. The development of deep network is very time-consuming. The training of the deep network is very time consuming. Deep learning is very energy-consuming. Deep learning requires an enormous amount of energy.

Related Work
The development of deep neural networks has been rapid in recent decades. Deep learning models have been widely used in various fields. Deep learning models have become the main method for solving problems in many fields. Deep
