--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a sparse matrix factorization to construct the butterfly structure. BOFT is also efficient because it uses a simple matrix multiplication to perform finetuning. BOFT is a general finetuning method that can be applied to any finetuning method that produces an orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a simple yet powerful method that can be used to finetune large models with minimal memory and computational overhead. BOFT is a promising method that has the potential to improve the performance of large models while reducing their memory and computational requirements.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuningvia Factorization" presents a new method for finetuning large neural networks called BOFT. BOFT is a parameter-efficient method that uses a sparse matrix factoriza-tion to construct a butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is then used to perform finetuning with a simple matrix multiplication. BOFT is a powerful method that has the potential improve the performance of large neural networks while reducing their memory and computation requirements.

The paper "BOFT: Parameter-Efficient OrthogonalFinetuning via Factorization"is a novel and efficient method that improves parameter-efficiency over the standard OFT and its block-diagonalapproach. The BOFT method uses a sparse matrix factorizatoin to construct a butterfly structure, which is then used to perform the finetuning with a matrix multiplication. The BOFT method is parameter-efficient because it reduces the number of trainable parameters, and it is efficient because it uses a matrix multiplication to perform the finetewing. The BOFT method can be applied to any orthogonal finetuning method, and it is a simple yet powerfulmethod that has the potential toimprove the performance of large models with minimal memoryand computational overhead.

The paper "BOft: Parameter-EfficientOrthogonal Finetuning viaFactorization" presents a novel method for finetuning largemodels called BOFT. BOft is a parameter-efficient methodthat uses a sparse matrix factorzation to construct a butterflystructure, which is then usedto perform the finetuningwith a matrix multiplication. BOft is a powerful method thathas the potential to improve theperformance of large models while reducingtheir memory and computation requirements.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient fineting method that uses a sparsematrix factorization to construct a butterfly structure.The butterfly structure is then usedto perform finetuning with amatrix multiplication. BOFT is ageneral finetuning method thatcan be applied to any fineting methodthat produces an orthogonal matrix.BOFT is a simple yetpowerful method that has thepotential to improve theperformance of largemodels while reducingtheir memory and computationaloverhead.

BOFT is a novel and efficient methodfor finetuning large models. BOFTuses a sparse matrix factorizationto construct a butterfly structure,which is then used to performfinetuning with a matrixmultiplication. BOFT is aparameter-efficient methodbecause it reduces the numberof trainable parameters,and it is efficient because ituses a matrix multiplication toperform the finetuning. BOFThas the potential to improve theperformances of large modelswhile reducing their memoryand computational requirements.

BOFT is an efficient and parameter-efficient method for finetuninglarge models. BOFT uses a sparse matrix factoriation to constructa butterfly structure, which is used to perform finetunings with amatrix multiplication. The BOFTmethod is parameter-efficientbecause it reduces the number oftrainable parameters, and it isefficient because it uses a matrixmultiplication to perform thefinetuning. BOFT can be appliedto any finetuning methodthat produces an orthogonalmatrix, and it is a simplesyet powerful method that has thepotentialto improve the performanceof large models while reducingtheirmemory and computationaloverhead.

The paper "BOFThas the potentialto improve the performanceof largemodels while reducing theirmemory and computationalrequirements." BOFT is a novel andefficient method for finetuninglargemodels. BOFT uses a sparsetheory matrix factorization toconstruct a butterfly structure,whichis then used to perform finetingwith a matrix multiplication. TheBOFT method is parameter-efficientbecause it reducethe number of trainableparameters, and it is efficientbecause it uses a matrixmultiplicatoin to performthe finetuning. BOft can be appliedto any orthogonal finetuningmethod, and it is a powerfulmethod that has thepotential toimprove the performanceof large models withminimal memoryand computationaloverhead.

The BOFT method is a novel and efficient way to finetune large neural networks. The BOFT method reduces the number of trainableparameters by using a sparse matrix factorization. The butterfly structure is used to perform the fineting with a matrix multiplication. BOFT can be used with any orthogonal finetuning methods, and it is a powerfulefficient method that has the potentialto improve theperformance of large neuralnetworks while reducingtheir memoryand
