--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a variant of OFT that uses a factorization to transform the weight matrix into a product of orthogonal matrices. BOFT has a much smaller number of parameters than OFT, and it can be easily parallelized. In contrast to BOFT, the block-diagonal approach uses a block-diagonal matrix to transform the weight matrix, and it has a similar parameter efficiency to OFT. We evaluate BOFT and the block-diagonal approach on 5 different datasets, including ImageNet, CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, MS-COCO, and VGG16. BOFT achieves better performance than the block-diagonal approach, and it is comparable to OFT. We also compare BOFT with other methods, including finetuning with random initialization, finetuning with pretrained weights, finetuning with the best model from a few-shot learning dataset, finetuning with a small subset of the original model, and finetuning with a pretrained model. BOFT outperforms all these methods. We also conduct a comprehensive ablation study to investigate the contributions of each component of BOFT. The results show that BOFT is more effective when the number of iterations is large, and the number of iterations can be determined by the number of classes in the dataset. The results of our experiments demonstrate that BOFT is a promising method for improving the performance of large models.

The paper is very well written and easy to understand. The authors have done a great job in explaining the problem and the solution. I would like to see some more experiments on the performance of BOFT on more datasets and more challenging tasks. Also, I would like to see more experiments on the generalizability of BOFT.

The paper is well written and easy to follow. The authors have done an excellent job in explaining the problem. I would like to read more experiments on the performance on more datasets and more difficult tasks. Also, I want to see more experiments on generalizability of BOF.

The paper is well-written and easy to follow. I would like to learn more about the experiments and the results. I would also like to see more experiments and results on the generalizability and the performance on more datasets.

The paper is wellwritten and easy to follow. However, I would like to read some more experiments on the generalization of BOFT on more data and more difficult tasks. I would also like more experiments on the performance and the generalizability of the BOFT on more datasets.

The authors have done a greatjob in explaining the problem and their solution. I would like more experiments on the generalisability of BOFT on more datsets and more difficult tasks. The paper is well-written and clear. I would like to know more about the experiments and results. I would alsolike to see more experiments onthe generalizability of BOFF on more datasets and moredifficult tasks.

The paper is well- written and easy to follow, but I would like to see a more detailed analysis of the results. I would like to hear more about the generalizability ofBOFT on more datasets andmore difficult tasks. I would like to seemore experiments on the performance andgeneralizability ofBOFTon more datasets and more difficulttasks.

The paper is well-writen and easy to follow. It is a good start to the topic of finetuning large models. I would like to have more experiments on the generalisation of BOFT on more dataset and more difficult tasks. It would be nice to see more experiments on how BOFT compares to other methods such as finetuning with random initialisation, finetuning with pre-trained weights, finetuning a small subset of the full model, finetuning a pretrained model, and finetunig a small subset of the model with a few-shot learning dataset.

The paper is wellwriten and easy to understand. I would like tosee more experiments on the generalizations of BOFT on moredata and more difficult tasks. In addition, I would like to seeme more experiments on the performanceand generalizability of BOFOFT on moredatasets and more difficult tasks.

The paper iswell-written and easy to follow, however I would like to seemore experiments on the generalizabilities of BOFT on moredatasets andmore difficult tasks. It would also be nice to see moreexperiments on the performance and generalizability ofBOF on more datasets and more diffficult tasks.

The paperis well-written and easy to understand. It is a goodstart to the topic of finetting large models. I wouldlike to see more experimentson the generalizabilities ofBOFT on moredata andmore difficult tasks. In addition,I would like to see moreexperimentson the performanceand generalizabilities ofBOF on moredatasets and moredifficult tasks.<|endoftext|>
