--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm called DPO, which is an extension of the well-known PPO algorithm. DPO uses a reward model to optimize the language model, which is a language model that maps each token in the input sequence to a reward value. The reward model is learned from human preferences, and it is trained using a variant of the standard reinforcement learning algorithm called proximal policy optimization (PPO). DPO is provably equivalent to PPO, but it is more efficient in practice. We evaluate DPO on two benchmarks: the 2022 GLUE benchmark and the 2022 CoNLL-U dataset. DPO achieves state-of-the-art performance on both benchmarks. We also conduct a comprehensive empirical study to understand the impact of the reward model on the performance of DPO. Our experiments show that the reward model can significantly improve the performance of DPO, and we provide a detailed analysis of the impact of the reward on the performance of D PO. We believe that our results will inspire future research on the use of reward models in reinforcement learning.

Introduction
In this paper, we focus on the problem of training language models to meet human preferences. The goal is to train a language model that can generate text that is similar to the text that humans prefer. This task is important for several reasons. First, it is crucial to ensure that language models are aligned with human preferences. If a language model is not aligned with human preferences, it may produce offensive or harmful content. Second, it is important to ensure that language models can generate text that is useful for downstream tasks. For example, if a language model is trained to generate text that is similar in style to the text that humans find useful for answering questions, then it will be useful for downstream tasks such as question answering. Third, it is important to understand how language models learn to meet human preferences. This will help us to better understand the underlying mechanisms of language learning, and it will help us to design more effective training algorithms.
There are many ways to measure human preferences. One way is to collect human judgments of text generated by language models. This approach has been used in several previous studies, including the GLUE benchmark (Wang et al., 2018) and the CoNLL-U dataset (Conneau et al., 2020). In these studies, human judges are asked to rate the quality of text generated by language model on a scale from 1 to 5. Another way to measure human preferences is to collect human preferences for different language models. This approach is used in the Open Language Modeling (OLM) leaderboard (Bai et al., 2022). In this leaderboard, human judges are asked which language model they prefer for a given task. The language model with the highest average preference score is considered the winner. A third way to measure human preferences for language models is to collect human preferences in the form of a reward function. This approach is used by the Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) algorithm (Chen et al., 2023). In this algorithm, a reward model is used to map each token in the input text to a reward value. Then, the language model is optimized to maximize the reward. The reward model is typically learned from human preferences. The reward model is used to evaluate the performance of the language model. The language model with higher reward is considered the winner.
The DPO algorithm is provably equivalent to the standard reinforcement learning algorithm PPO (Schulman et al., 2017), but it is more efficient. In particular, the DPO algorithm is provable to be at least as efficient as PPO, and it is provably to be at most twice as efficient. This is important because the efficiency of reinforcement learning algorithms is crucial for real-world applications. For example, reinforcement learning algorithms are used to train self-driving cars (Schulman et a1., 2017), and they are also used to train language models (Chen et al. 2023). Therefore, it is important to have efficient reinforcement learning algorithms.
In this paper, we introduce a new reinforcement learning algorithm called DPO. DPO is an extension of the PPO algorithm, and it is provable to be equivalent to PPO. However, DPO is more efficient than PPO. We conduct a comprehensive empirical study that compares the performance of DPO and PPO on two benchmarks: GLUE (Wang et al. 2018) and CoNLL-U (Conneau et al. 2020). Our experiments show that DPO is more efficient in practice, and it achieves better performance than PPO on both benchmarks. We believe that our experiments will inspire future research on reinforcement learning algorithms for language modeling.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the problem of training language model to meet human preferences. In Section 3, we introduce the DPO algorithm. In Section 4, we present our empirical study. In Section 5, we present our conclusions.

Problem statement
In this section
