In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the jury convicted Justin Cutbank under 18 U.S.C. §§ 922(g)(1) and 924(e) of being a felon in possession of a firearm.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after D.F. called the police, officers also received a separate report from a house about a half mile away that a man was in the garage and refused to leave.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after police responded to a report that a man was in a nearby garage and refusing to leave, and Cutbank barricaded himself inside and made erratic statements over several hours, he claimed to have a weapon.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when officers attempted to detain Cutbank after he barricaded himself in a garage, he bit an officer during the struggle on the face and neck
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the jury found Cutbank guilty of the charged felon-in-possession offense and also found that he had previously been convicted of at least three violent felonies, which triggered the enhanced penalty provisions of § 924(e).
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before trial Cutbank moved under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b) to prevent testimony from D.F. and C.F.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", citing United States v. Battle on the relevance of prior firearm possession to a later possession charge, the court stated that prior possession helps establish ownership or control of the weapon.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the standard of review that applies on appeal to a district court’s decision not to give a limiting instruction is abuse of discretion.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", a district court may decline to instruct the jury about each item of evidence at the time that evidence is admitted if the court provides an appropriate instruction at the close of trial.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the defense tried to undermine C.F.’s testimony that she had seen the gun used during the incident “once or twice” before by cross-examining her about prior statements she made to a police investigator.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", on appeal from the district court’s application of U.S.S.G. § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense, Cutbank argued that the district court incorrectly applied a four-level sentencing enhancement
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after the jury found that Cutbank had three or more prior violent felony convictions triggering Armed Career Criminal Act penalties, the opinion stated that under the Armed Career Criminal Guideline it would have produced a total offense level of 34.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when the Eighth Circuit applied the presumption quoted from United States v. Masood during review of Cutbank’s within-Guidelines sentence, it said the district court was aware of [Cutbank’s] arguments
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after a jury convicted Justin Cutbank of being a felon in possession of a firearm under 18 U.S.C. §§ 922(g)(1) and 924(e), he was sentenced under the Armed Career Criminal Act
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after the jury convicted Justin Cutbank of being a felon in possession of a firearm and the district court sentenced him under the Armed Career Criminal Act, the court imposed 292 months imprisonment
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before the Eighth Circuit, Cutbank appealed his conviction and sentence after arguing that the district court made evidentiary and procedural errors and also misapplied a sentencing enhancement that increased his advisory Guidelines range, namely a USSG § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) sentencing enhancement
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before the Eighth Circuit, Cutbank argued on appeal from his felon-in-possession conviction and sentence that the district court's multiple evidentiary and procedural errors deprived him of a fair trial
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the drug Cutbank had used before he awakened his girlfriend, D.F., during the night of November 19-20, 2020, was methamphetamine
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after Cutbank pointed a gun at his girlfriend D.F.’s face during the night of November 19-20, 2020, he directed her into a closet.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", during the November 19-20, 2020 incident in which Cutbank kept D.F. in a closet at gunpoint, D.F. testified that the ordeal lasted for what D.F. testified felt like hours
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", during the November 19-20, 2020 incident in which Cutbank kept D.F. in a closet at gunpoint and threatened her life, he was also described as striking her across the face with the gun
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", during the events of November 19-20, 2020, Cutbank ordered D.F. to rouse others sleeping in the house, including her two teenage sons and her housemate, C.F.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after D.F. contacted the police, they received a separate call from another house about a half mile from D.F.’s residence.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after police found Cutbank at another house following his flight from D.F.’s residence, the opinion states that when officers attempted to detain him and he resisted, he grabbed his gun.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after officers searched the path they believed Cutbank took between D.F.'s home and the garage and recovered a Marlin .22 caliber rifle with a sawed-off barrel and stock, the evidence on that weapon that matched Cutbank was DNA on the gun
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", at trial, the witnesses who identified the Marlin .22 caliber rifle as a weapon they had seen Cutbank with before that night were D.F. and C.F.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the jury convicted Cutbank of the offense, aside from finding that he had at least three prior violent felony convictions under 18 U.S.C. § 924(e), and that offense was the charged felon in possession offense
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", Cutbank raises a series of evidentiary and procedural issues
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before trial Cutbank moved to bar testimony from D.F. and C.F. under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b), and D.F. and C.F. said they had previously seen Cutbank with the sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the district court concluded that testimony from D.F. and C.F. that they had previously seen Cutbank with a sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle would be intrinsic evidence relevant to proving the possession charge and demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the district court ruled before trial that testimony from D.F. and C.F. about previously seeing Cutbank with a sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle was intrinsic evidence rather than Rule 404(b) propensity evidence, and the evidence was relevant to demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", in addressing whether prior observations of Cutbank with the sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle were intrinsic evidence rather than Rule 404(b) propensity evidence, the court noted that prior possession of a firearm is directly relevant to proving later possession of that same weapon
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", D.F. testified at trial that before the incident at issue she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", where the district court allowed testimony as intrinsic evidence on the possession charge rather than excluding it under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b), D.F. testified she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle a “handful of times” before the incident at issue.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before trial Cutbank asked for a limiting jury instruction about D.F.’s statements to police to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause issues
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before trial Cutbank asked for a jury instruction that the jury could not treat D.F.’s statements to police as substantive evidence of his actions until D.F. herself testified to the events.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", Cutbank sought a pretrial jury instruction to limit how the jury could use D.F.'s statements to police because of hearsay and Confrontation Clause concerns, and the government's argument was that those statements would establish the context for police officer actions and their knowledge at the time
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after Cutbank sought a pretrial jury instruction to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause problems from D.F.'s statements to police, the government argued that, if needed, the customary and sufficient response would be a later instruction from the bench
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the case cited for the abuse-of-discretion standard governing appellate review of a district court’s decision not to give a limiting instruction is United States v. Bennett, 765 F.3d 887, 899 (8th Cir. 2014), cert. denied, 574 U.S. 1180 (2015).
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when reviewing whether the district court should have given a limiting instruction at the time evidence was admitted, the court said it need not instruct the jury regarding each item of evidence at the time the evidence is admitted if the court provides an appropriate instruction at the close of trial
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after D.F. testified at trial, the Eighth Circuit cited United States v. Charboneau while addressing the Confrontation Clause issue, and under Charboneau the Confrontation Clause is satisfied “when the hearsay declarants . . . actually appear in court and testify in person.”
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", in addressing Confrontation Clause concerns about D.F.'s statements to police, the opinion states that the Confrontation Clause is satisfied by the appearance in court and in-person testimony of the hearsay declarants
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", D.F. testified at trial that she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when the district court overruled the defense objection during trial after C.F. testified about having seen the gun used in the incident before, C.F. was testifying as a government witness
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when the district court overruled the defense's objection to C.F.'s testimony as a government witness at trial, she testified that she had seen the gun used in the incident “once or twice” before
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", on appeal Cutbank cited no authority refuting the district court’s pretrial ruling that testimony about his prior possession of the sawed-off rifle was intrinsic evidence relevant to proving the possession charge and demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", on appeal the defendant did not cite any authority refuting the district court’s pretrial ruling that treated witness testimony as intrinsic evidence, and under that ruling the intrinsic evidence was relevant to demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", during cross-examination about D.F.'s prior inconsistent statements regarding the gun, including her statement that she did not remember seeing the gun on the night in question, D.F. said one reason for those statements was “not familiar with guns”
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", during cross-examination about D.F.’s prior inconsistent statements concerning the gun, D.F. said she did not like guns because her sister was killed by a gun
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when the defense cross-examined C.F. about her prior statements to a police investigator, the district court allowed questioning about what C.F. said to police
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the district court sustained the government's objections to defense counsel reading parts of the police report into the record for lack of foundation because the report was not authored by C.F.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the government’s brief described one of Cutbank’s appellate claims concerning the district court’s handling of his cross-examination of C.F. on her testimony about gun possession as a claim that the district court ‘thwarted’ his efforts to cross-examine C.F. on her testimony regarding the gun possession
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the government's appellate brief argued that Cutbank claimed the district court had “thwarted” his efforts to cross-examine a witness about testimony concerning gun possession, and the witness was C.F.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", which cited United States v. Cumbie, extrinsic evidence may be used for impeachment by prior inconsistent statement
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when a party uses extrinsic evidence to impeach a witness with a prior inconsistent statement, that extrinsic evidence must still be authenticated
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when the Eighth Circuit quoted United States v. DeMarce in discussing harmless error review of evidentiary rulings, it stated that the court will not reverse an erroneous evidentiary ruling if the error was harmless
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the court will reverse an erroneous evidentiary ruling only if the jury may have been substantially swayed by the improperly admitted evidence.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the rulings that "did not influence or had only a slight influence on the verdict" were the district court’s evidentiary rulings
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before the court will overturn a conviction based on the cumulative effect of trial errors, there must be shown substantial prejudice to the defendant.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after the jury found Cutbank guilty of being a felon in possession of a firearm and also found that he had three or more prior violent felony convictions, those findings triggered the Armed Career Criminal Act’s enhanced penalties
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the Presentence Investigation Report recommended a base offense level of 26 for the felon-in-possession offense based on a sawed-off firearm described in 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a)
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the Presentence Investigation Report recommended several sentencing increases for Cutbank’s felon-in-possession offense, including a three-level increase based on an altered/obliterated serial number
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the Presentence Investigation Report calculated Cutbank’s Criminal History Category as VI
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after the Presentence Investigation Report calculated a Criminal History Category of VI, the advisory Guidelines sentencing range was 292 to 365 months imprisonment.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", Cutbank appealed his sentence and argued that the district court wrongly imposed a four-level enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense under § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B)
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", Application Note 14(C) to § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) provides that the firearm-possession enhancement applies when the firearm or ammunition is used or possessed in connection with another federal, state, or local felony offense
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the commentary to U.S.S.G. § 2K2.1, application note 14(C), says that the four-level enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense applies “regardless of whether a criminal charge was brought, or a conviction obtained.”
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", during sentencing on the felon-in-possession conviction, the district court adopted, without objection, the PSR’s factual statements regarding Cutback’s prior felony convictions.
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", during sentencing on the felon-in-possession conviction and related guideline enhancements, the district court adopted the Presentence Investigation Report’s factual statements about Cutbank’s prior felony convictions without objection
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", on appeal from the district court's application of the § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) sentencing enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense, the facts the court found established that the gun was used in connection with another felony were contained in the PSR
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when the Eighth Circuit concluded that the district court did not clearly err in relying on the PSR's facts to apply the four-level enhancement under U.S.S.G. § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense, it cited United States v. Dunn, 723 F.3d 919, 929-30 (8th Cir. 2013)
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", on appeal from his felon-in-possession sentence, Cutbank argued that the within-Guidelines sentence conflicted with the core principle of 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) because of application of the § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) 4-level enhancement
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the jury found that Cutbank had three or more prior violent felony convictions
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", quoting Gall v. United States on how a district court should determine an appropriate sentence, the court said a district court should begin all sentencing proceedings by correctly calculating the applicable Guidelines range.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before an appellate court considers the substantive reasonableness of a sentence in reviewing the district court's Guidelines calculation, it must first ensure the district court committed no significant procedural error, such as failing to calculate (or improperly calculating) the Guidelines range.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", before reviewing the substantive reasonableness of a sentence, a court of appeals must first check for a significant procedural sentencing error such as failing to calculate (or improperly calculating) the Guidelines range
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after correctly calculating the advisory Guidelines range at sentencing, the court considers whether a departure or variance is warranted, and the relevant considerations are the § 3553(a) factors
According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the case cited for the rule that a sentence imposed within the applicable Guidelines range is presumed reasonable on appeal was United States v. Goodhouse, 81 F.4th 786, 793 (8th Cir. 2023).
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", the Eighth Circuit described the conduct at issue under 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) as assault in the victim’s home in the presence of her children
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", when discussing Cutbank’s within-Guidelines sentence and the § 3553(a) factors, the Eighth Circuit said the offense involved injuring a police officer
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after the Eighth Circuit considered Cutbank's challenge to the substantive reasonableness of his within-Guidelines sentence, the district court had imposed a 292-month term of imprisonment
In the case "United States v. Justin Cutbank", after the district court imposed a within-Guidelines 292-month term of imprisonment and the Eighth Circuit reviewed it for substantive reasonableness, the court said the district court did not impose a substantively unreasonable sentence
