----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Apex Bank appeals a decision of the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board refusing registration of Apex’s marks.
answer: "Trademark Trial and Appeal Board"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., the tribunal that issued the decision refusing registration of Apex Bank’s marks, which Apex Bank appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, was the "Trademark Trial and Appeal Board".

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: CC Serve is the owner of Registration No. 2126948 for the word mark ASPIRE used in connection with credit card services.
answer: "credit card services"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., where CC Serve owned Registration No. 2126948 for the word mark ASPIRE, the ASPIRE mark was used in connection with "credit card services".

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The ASPIRE mark registration was issued in 1998 and has an effective priority date of October 17, 1996.
answer: 1998
statement: In "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", CC Serve owned Registration No. 2126948 for the word mark ASPIRE used in connection with credit card services, and the ASPIRE mark registration was issued in 1998.

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The ASPIRE mark registration was issued in 1998 and has an effective priority date of October 17, 1996.
answer: October 17, 1996
statement: In the case "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.," the opinion describes CC Serve's Registration No. 2126948 for the word mark ASPIRE, used in connection with credit card services, as having an effective priority date of October 17, 1996.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: CC Serve offers credit card services in connection with the ASPIRE mark—CC Serve joins with a bank, and the bank issues ASPIRE-branded credit cards and associated accounts to customers.
answer: "the ASPIRE mark"
statement: In the case "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.," where CC Serve is described as offering credit card services together with a bank that issues branded credit cards and associated accounts to customers, CC Serve offers those credit card services in connection with "the ASPIRE mark".

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: CC Serve offers credit card services in connection with the ASPIRE mark—CC Serve joins with a bank, and the bank issues ASPIRE-branded credit cards and associated accounts to customers.
answer: "ASPIRE-branded credit cards and associated accounts"
statement: In "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", the opinion explains that when CC Serve joins with a bank in connection with its ASPIRE mark, the bank issues to customers "ASPIRE-branded credit cards and associated accounts".

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In August 2019, Apex filed intent-to-use applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office to register the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for “[b]anking and financing services.”
answer: "the United States Patent and Trademark Office"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., Apex planned to offer an internet bank under the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks, and in August 2019 it filed intent-to-use applications to register those marks for “[b]anking and financing services” with "the United States Patent and Trademark Office".

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In August 2019, Apex filed intent-to-use applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office to register the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for “[b]anking and financing services.”
answer: "[b]anking and financing services."
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., Apex identified the services in its August 2019 intent-to-use applications filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office for the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks as "[b]anking and financing services."

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During prosecution, CC Serve submitted a letter of protest asserting that Apex’s proposed marks were confusingly similar to CC Serve’s mark.
answer: "confusingly similar to CC Serve’s mark"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., during prosecution of Apex's intent-to-use applications for the ASPIRE BANK marks, CC Serve asserted in its letter of protest to the United States Patent and Trademark Office that Apex's proposed marks were "confusingly similar to CC Serve’s mark".

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Nonetheless, the examining attorney approved the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for publication, and the marks published on December 17, 2019.
answer: "the examining attorney"
statement: In the case "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.," Apex filed intent-to-use applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office to register the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for banking and financing services, and those marks were approved for publication by "the examining attorney".

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Nonetheless, the examining attorney approved the ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for publication, and the marks published on December 17, 2019.
answer: "December 17, 2019"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", after the examining attorney approved Apex's ASPIRE BANK word and design marks for publication during USPTO prosecution, those marks were published on "December 17, 2019".

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board sustained the opposition under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1052(d), concluding that consumer confusion between the marks was likely.
answer: "consumer confusion between the marks"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board sustained CC Serve's opposition to Apex's proposed ASPIRE BANK marks under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1052(d), after concluding that it was likely "consumer confusion between the marks"

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review the [B]oard’s legal conclusions de novo, and its findings of fact for substantial evidence.” M2 Software, Inc. v. M2 Commc’ns, Inc., 450 F.3d 1378, 1382 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal citation omitted).
answer: de novo
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", the standard of review that applies to the Board's legal conclusions on appeal is de novo.

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review the [B]oard’s legal conclusions de novo, and its findings of fact for substantial evidence.” M2 Software, Inc. v. M2 Commc’ns, Inc., 450 F.3d 1378, 1382 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal citation omitted).
answer: substantial evidence
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., when the reviewing court reviews the Board’s findings of fact, it requires substantial evidence.

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Substantial evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Consol. Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938).
answer: "such relevant evidence"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when describing the standard of review for factual findings, the court says substantial evidence is "such relevant evidence".

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Substantial evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Consol. Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938).
answer: "support a conclusion"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when the court quoted the Consol. Edison definition of substantial evidence as the standard of review for factual findings, it stated that substantial evidence must be adequate to "support a conclusion".

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A trademark opposition under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act requires registration refusal when “confusion is likely because of concurrent use of the marks of an applicant and a prior user on their respective goods.” Application of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Co., 476 F.2d 1357, 1360 (C.C.P.A. 1973).
answer: Section 2(d)
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., according to the opinion's discussion of trademark opposition standards, the section of the Lanham Act that governs an opposition requiring refusal of registration when confusion is likely because of concurrent use of the marks of an applicant and a prior user on their respective goods is Section 2(d).

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A trademark opposition under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act requires registration refusal when “confusion is likely because of concurrent use of the marks of an applicant and a prior user on their respective goods.” Application of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Co., 476 F.2d 1357, 1360 (C.C.P.A. 1973).
answer: an applicant and a prior user
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", in a trademark opposition under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, concurrent use of the marks on their respective goods can make confusion likely: an applicant and a prior user.

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Likelihood of confusion is a question of law, based on findings of relevant underlying facts, namely findings under the DuPont factors.” M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1381.
answer: a question of law
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", in a trademark opposition under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, likelihood of confusion is a question of law.

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Likelihood of confusion is a question of law, based on findings of relevant underlying facts, namely findings under the DuPont factors.” M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1381.
answer: the DuPont factors
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", in a trademark opposition under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, likelihood of confusion is a question of law based on findings of the DuPont factors.

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Each of the [thirteen] DuPont factors presents a question of fact, findings with regard to which we test for substantial evidence when called into question on appeal.” Bose Corp. v. QSC Audio Prods., Inc., 293 F.3d 1367, 1370 (Fed. Cir. 2002).
answer: "DuPont factors"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", in the Federal Circuit's discussion of likelihood of confusion and appellate review, the set of thirteen factors that each presents a question of fact is the "DuPont factors".

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Each of the [thirteen] DuPont factors presents a question of fact, findings with regard to which we test for substantial evidence when called into question on appeal.” Bose Corp. v. QSC Audio Prods., Inc., 293 F.3d 1367, 1370 (Fed. Cir. 2002).
answer: "substantial evidence"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when the appellate court reviews a trademark likelihood-of-confusion determination under the DuPont factors and the findings on those factors are challenged on appeal, it uses the standard of "substantial evidence".

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On appeal, Apex argues that the Board erred in its likelihood-of-confusion analysis, specifically with respect to its analysis of the second, sixth, and first DuPont factors.
answer: "likelihood-of-confusion analysis"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., Apex challenged the Board's treatment of the second, sixth, and first DuPont factors and argued that the Board erred in its "likelihood-of-confusion analysis".

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On appeal, Apex argues that the Board erred in its likelihood-of-confusion analysis, specifically with respect to its analysis of the second, sixth, and first DuPont factors.
answer: "the second, sixth, and first DuPont factors"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., on appeal from the Board's likelihood-of-confusion analysis, Apex specifically argued that the Board analyzed incorrectly "the second, sixth, and first DuPont factors".

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board concluded that the sixth DuPont factor did not weigh in favor of Apex, and that the first and second DuPont factors weigh in favor of CC Serve. J.A. 62–63.
answer: "the sixth DuPont factor"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., after Apex appealed the Board's likelihood-of-confusion analysis under the DuPont factors, the Board concluded that the factor that did not weigh in favor of Apex was "the sixth DuPont factor".

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The services need not be identical—the evidence need only establish that “the respective products are related in some manner and/or [that] the circumstances surrounding their marketing are such that they could give rise to the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source.”
answer: "the respective products are related in some manner"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", under the second DuPont factor addressing the similarity of the parties’ goods or services, the evidence must establish that "the respective products are related in some manner".

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The services need not be identical—the evidence need only establish that “the respective products are related in some manner and/or [that] the circumstances surrounding their marketing are such that they could give rise to the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source.”
answer: "the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when applying the second DuPont factor on the similarity of the parties’ goods or services, the services need not be identical; the evidence may instead show that the products are related or that the circumstances surrounding their marketing could give rise to "the mistaken belief that they emanate from the same source".

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board assessed the similarities between credit card services (CC Serve’s services) and banking and financing services (Apex’s services).
answer: "credit card services"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., in analyzing the second DuPont factor, the Board compared Apex’s banking and financing services with CC Serve’s "credit card services".

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board assessed the similarities between credit card services (CC Serve’s services) and banking and financing services (Apex’s services).
answer: "banking and financing services"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., when the Board evaluated the second DuPont factor by comparing CC Serve’s credit card services with Apex’s services, Apex’s services were identified as "banking and financing services".

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because the entry for “credit card services” was deleted from the Trademark ID Manual after CC Serve’s registration, the Board first determined the meaning of the identified services.
answer: the meaning of the identified services
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., when the Board compared CC Serve’s credit card services with Apex’s banking and financing services under the second DuPont factor and noted that the Trademark ID Manual entry for “credit card services” had been deleted after CC Serve’s registration, it first determined the meaning of the identified services.

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board also considered third-party registrations that cover (1) credit card and (2) banking and financing services to support its finding that “the services are of a type that may emanate from a single source under one mark.”
answer: "a single source under one mark"
statement: In the case "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.," the Board considered third-party registrations covering both credit card services and banking and financing services as part of the second DuPont factor analysis because it found that these services may emanate from "a single source under one mark".

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board carefully considered the descriptions of each party’s services, and substantial evidence supports the Board’s finding that the parties’ services are highly similar.
answer: "substantial evidence"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when reviewing the Board’s analysis of the second DuPont factor on appeal, the court said the Board’s finding that Apex’s banking and financing services and CC Serve’s credit card services were highly similar was supported by "substantial evidence".

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Evidence of third-party use of similar marks on similar goods is relevant to show that a mark is relatively weak and entitled to only a narrow scope of protection.”
answer: relatively weak
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.," in discussing the sixth DuPont factor about the number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods, evidence of third-party use of similar marks on similar goods can show that the strength of a mark is relatively weak.

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Evidence that consumers have been educated to distinguish between marks in this way tends to indicate a lack of commercial strength.
answer: "a lack of commercial strength"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.," in discussing the sixth DuPont factor and third-party use of similar marks on similar goods, evidence that consumers have been educated to distinguish between similar marks tends to indicate "a lack of commercial strength".

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Evidence that consumers have been educated to distinguish between marks in this way tends to indicate a lack of commercial strength.
answer: "distinguish between marks"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when the court discussed the sixth DuPont factor and a crowded field of similar marks, it said consumers may be educated to do "distinguish between marks"

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Apex submitted several exhibits to the Board that showed third-party uses of marks including the word “Aspire”. J.A. 40–46.
answer: "Aspire"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., when the court discussed the sixth DuPont factor and Apex's evidence of third-party use submitted to the Board, the marks shown in those third-party uses contained the word "Aspire".

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The marks used the word “Aspire” in connection with credit card-related services and, more broadly, the financial services industry.
answer: the financial services industry
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., the opinion’s discussion of Apex’s evidence under the sixth DuPont factor, including third-party uses of marks containing the word “Aspire,” showed that those marks were used in the financial services industry

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board concluded that because of the overlap between Apex and CC Serve’s services, the properly defined relevant public is “consumers of ‘credit card services.’”
answer: “consumers of ‘credit card services.’”
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., when the Board evaluated the overlap between Apex's and CC Serve's services in defining the relevant public for the likelihood-of-confusion analysis, it concluded that the properly defined relevant public was “consumers of ‘credit card services.’”

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board focused solely on the marks identified for credit card services and deemed the marks using Aspire for other services to be “essentially irrelevant.”
answer: "credit card services"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., after the Board applied the sixth DuPont factor and defined the relevant public as consumers of certain services, it focused solely on the identified marks for "credit card services".

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board focused solely on the marks identified for credit card services and deemed the marks using Aspire for other services to be “essentially irrelevant.”
answer: "essentially irrelevant"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., after the Board limited its analysis under the sixth DuPont factor to marks identified for credit card services because it defined the relevant public as consumers of credit card services, it characterized third-party marks using "Aspire" for other services as "essentially irrelevant".

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board concluded that there were nine Aspire-formative marks for credit card services, but that only nine uses did not rise to the level of “considerable” or “ubiquitous” use found to demonstrate weakness.
answer: “considerable” or “ubiquitous” use
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., when the Board evaluated third-party Aspire-formative marks used for credit card services under the sixth DuPont factor, it held that nine such uses were not enough to show “considerable” or “ubiquitous” use.

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board found that “[CC Serve] has not shown that its mark has any particular commercial strength, but [Apex] has not shown that [CC Serve]’s mark is commercially or conceptually weak such that it is entitled to a narrow scope of protection,” and determined that CC Serve’s mark is entitled to the “normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks.”
answer: "normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., after finding that Apex had not shown CC Serve’s mark was commercially or conceptually weak, the Board determined that CC Serve’s mark was entitled to "normal scope of protection accorded inherently distinctive marks".

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On appeal, Apex contends that the Board erred in limiting the relevant public to consumers of credit card services and that the Board should have considered the 42 other third-party marks that use Aspire and Aspire-formative marks.
answer: "consumers of credit card services"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., on appeal Apex argued that the Board defined the relevant public too narrowly when analyzing third-party Aspire-formative marks under the DuPont factors and had improperly limited the relevant public to "consumers of credit card services".

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On appeal, Apex contends that the Board erred in limiting the relevant public to consumers of credit card services and that the Board should have considered the 42 other third-party marks that use Aspire and Aspire-formative marks.
answer: "42 other third-party marks"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., Apex argued on appeal that the Board wrongly limited the relevant public to consumers of credit card services when evaluating third-party use of Aspire-formative marks, and Apex contended that the Board should have considered "42 other third-party marks".

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The sixth DuPont factor requires the Board to consider similar marks for similar goods and services.
answer: "similar marks for similar goods and services"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when applying the sixth DuPont factor in the likelihood-of-confusion analysis, the Board must consider "similar marks for similar goods and services".

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the Board’s analysis of the second DuPont factor, see infra Section III.A, the Board determined that the parties’ services are highly similar, which led the Board to conclude that the second factor weighed heavily in favor of finding likelihood of confusion.
answer: "highly similar"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., in the Board’s analysis of the second DuPont factor on likelihood of confusion, the Board characterized Apex and CC Serve’s services as "highly similar".

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the Board’s analysis of the second DuPont factor, see infra Section III.A, the Board determined that the parties’ services are highly similar, which led the Board to conclude that the second factor weighed heavily in favor of finding likelihood of confusion.
answer: "likelihood of confusion"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", during the Board’s analysis of the second DuPont factor, after finding that the parties’ services were highly similar, it concluded that this factor weighed heavily in favor of finding "likelihood of confusion".

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When analyzing the sixth Dupont factor, however, the Board restricted the universe of marks it considered to only those relating to credit card services and APEX BANK v. CC SERVE CORP. 7 excluded marks related to other banking and financing services.
answer: "other banking and financing services"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., when the Board analyzed the sixth DuPont factor concerning similar marks in use on similar goods or services, it limited its review to marks relating to credit card services and excluded "other banking and financing services".

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When the Board has already made a factual finding that the services are highly similar—in fact, partially legally identical—in its analysis of the second DuPont factor, J.A. 27–28, the Board should retain the same scope in its consideration of similarity under the other factors.
answer: "the same scope"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.," after the Board found in its analysis of the second DuPont factor that the parties' services were highly similar and partially legally identical, the Board should retain "the same scope" when considering similarity under the other DuPont factors.

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When the Board has already made a factual finding that the services are highly similar—in fact, partially legally identical—in its analysis of the second DuPont factor, J.A. 27–28, the Board should retain the same scope in its consideration of similarity under the other factors.
answer: "partially legally identical"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when the Board analyzed the second DuPont factor and found the parties' services highly similar, the court described the services at that stage as "partially legally identical".

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We see no reason to impose a different and more stringent legal standard for similarity under the sixth DuPont factor.
answer: "the sixth DuPont factor"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when reviewing the Board's treatment of third-party Aspire-formative marks in the likelihood-of-confusion analysis, the court said there was no reason to impose a different and more stringent legal standard for similarity under "the sixth DuPont factor".

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The first DuPont factor considers the “similarity or dissimilarity of the marks in their entireties as to appearance, sound, connotation and commercial impression.” DuPont, 476 F.2d at 1361.
answer: Answer: "The first DuPont factor"
statement: In the case "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", according to the opinion's discussion of the DuPont factors, the factor that considers the similarity or dissimilarity of the marks in their entireties as to appearance, sound, connotation, and commercial impression is "The first DuPont factor".

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This analysis focuses on the overall commercial impression and whether confusion as to the source of the services offered under the respective marks is likely to result. In re I.AM.Symbolic, LLC, 866 F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2017).
answer: "overall commercial impression"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", when applying the first DuPont factor to evaluate the similarity or dissimilarity of the marks, the analysis focuses on the marks' "overall commercial impression".

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This analysis focuses on the overall commercial impression and whether confusion as to the source of the services offered under the respective marks is likely to result. In re I.AM.Symbolic, LLC, 866 F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2017).
answer: "confusion as to the source of the services offered under the respective marks"
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., the opinion explains that the first DuPont factor looks to the overall commercial impression of the marks and considers whether it is likely to result in "confusion as to the source of the services offered under the respective marks".

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because commercial impression informs the analysis under the first DuPont factor, we must similarly vacate the Board’s analysis here because reconsideration of the sixth DuPont factor may result in a different determination of the mark’s commercial strength or weakness and affect the overall commercial impression.
answer: the mark’s commercial strength or weakness
statement: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., the court stated that reconsideration of the sixth DuPont factor could lead to a different determination of the mark’s commercial strength or weakness.

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We affirm the Board’s analysis as to the second DuPont factor because the Board did not err in its legal analysis and substantial evidence supports the Board’s finding that the parties’ services are highly similar.
answer: "highly similar"
statement: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", the court affirmed the Board’s analysis of the second DuPont factor because substantial evidence supported the Board’s finding that the parties’ services were "highly similar".

