----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Apex Bank appeals a decision of the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board refusing registration of Apex’s marks.
fact: In "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", Apex Bank appealed a decision of the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board that refused "registration of Apex’s marks".
target: registration of Apex’s marks

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Board need not consider every DuPont factor, only those “that are relevant and of record.” M2 Software, 450 F.3d at 1382.
fact: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", in a trademark opposition under Section 2(d) of the Lanham Act, the Board must consider only those DuPont factors "that are relevant and of record".
target: that are relevant and of record

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because the entry for “credit card services” was deleted from the Trademark ID Manual after CC Serve’s registration, the Board first determined the meaning of the identified services.
fact: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., while the Board was comparing CC Serve’s services with Apex’s banking and financing services under the second DuPont factor, the Trademark ID Manual entry that had been deleted after CC Serve’s registration was “credit card services”.
target: credit card services

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The sixth DuPont factor considers “[t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.”
fact: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., the sixth DuPont factor in the likelihood-of-confusion analysis considers “[t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.”
target: [t]he number and nature of similar marks in use on similar goods.

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We have held that the sixth DuPont factor does not require identical goods—only similar ones.
fact: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.", the court discussed third-party use of similar marks on similar goods and services. It said that the applicable DuPont factor was "the sixth DuPont factor".
target: the sixth DuPont factor

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When the Board has already made a factual finding that the services are highly similar—in fact, partially legally identical—in its analysis of the second DuPont factor, J.A. 27–28, the Board should retain the same scope in its consideration of similarity under the other factors.
fact: According to the opinion in "Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp.," after the Board found in its analysis of the second DuPont factor that the parties' services were highly similar and partially legally identical, the Board should retain "the same scope" when considering similarity under the other DuPont factors.
target: "the same scope"

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We see no reason to impose a different and more stringent legal standard for similarity under the sixth DuPont factor.
fact: In Apex Bank v. CC Serve Corp., the Federal Circuit held that the Board erred by using a narrower view of similar services under the sixth DuPont factor than it had used elsewhere in the likelihood-of-confusion analysis. It said there was no reason to impose "a different and more stringent legal standard."
target: a different and more stringent legal standard

