--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. The paper is about finetuning a pretrained model with a small number of parameters, and it uses a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning (PEOFT) method. The PEOFT method is based on the factorization of the Gram matrix. The Gram matrix is the matrix that connects two vectors. The Gram matrix is used to calculate the similarity between two vectors. The PEOFT uses the Gram matrix to finetune the pretrained model. The PEOFT has two steps: orthogonal finetuning and reorthogonalization. The orthogonal finetuning is to finetune the model with a set of orthogonal matrices. The reorthogonalization is to finetune with a set of orthogonal and diagonal matrices. The reorthogonlalization is to make the orthogonal matrices more sparse. The sparse orthogonal matrices can reduce the number of trainable parameters. The PEOFT is parameter-efficient because it reduces the number of trainable parameters.

The Gram matrix is the matrix between two vectors. The Gram Matrix is used to calculate the Similarity between two vectors. The Orthogonal matrix is a matrix that has an inverse. The Diagonal matrix is a matrix that only has the values on the diagonal. The Sparse matrix is a matrix that most of the values are zero. The Orthogonal matrix and Diagonal matrix are both sparse matrices. The Gram matrix is a sparse matrix. The Orthogonal matrix can be sparse. The Diagonal matrix can be sparse. These two matrices can be used to finetune the original model. The PEOOF method uses these two matrices to finetune the pre-trained model. The PEOOFT method uses the Gram matrix to fine-tune the model. The Gram matrix is calculated by multiplying two vectors. The Gram matrices are used to calculate the similarity of two vectors. The PEPOT method uses the Gram matrix for finetuning. The PEPOT uses the Gram matrix to calculate the similarity of the vectors. The PEPOTT method uses the Gram matrix and the orthogonal matrix to finetune. The PEPOTT uses the orthogonal matrix to make the Gram matrix more sparse. The PEPOTT is parameter-efficient because it uses fewer trainable parameters than the PEOOF method. The PEPOTT can finetune a pretrained model with a smaller number of parameters than the PEOOFT method. The PEPOT is parameter-efficient because it can finetune a model with fewer parameters than the PEOFT method.

The PEPOT method is parameter-efficient because it is based on the Gram matrix. The PEPOT can finetune a pre-trained model with a smaller number parameters than the PEOOT method. The PEPOTO method is parameter-efficient because the Gram matrix is used to finetune. This method reduces the number of trainable parameter. The PEPOT and PEOOT methods are parameter-efficient because they use fewer trainable parameters than the original method. The PEPOFT method is parameter-efficient because of the Gram matrix. This method reduces the amount of trainable parameters. The Gram matrix is also used to finetune, which reduces the number of trainable paramaters. The PEPOT, PEOOT, and PEPOFT methods are parameter-efficient because of the use of the Gram matrix. These methods reduce the number of trainable parameter.

The PEPOT is parameter efficient because it uses the Gram matrix to train the model. The Gram Matrix is a matrix that connects two vectors and calculates the similarity between them. The Gram Matrix is also used to finete the model. The Gram Matix is a sparse matrix. It has a lot of zeros. The Gram Matrix is sparse because it has a lot of zeros in it. The Gram Matrix is the Gram Matrix. The Gram Matrix is calculated by multiplying two matrices. The Gram Matrix is then used to calculate the similarity. The Gram Matrix is sparsified by using the Orthogonal Matrix. The Orthogonal Matrix is a matrix that has a lot of zeros and ones. The Orthogonal Matrix can be used to make the Gram Matrix sparse. The Orthogonal Matrix makes the Gram Matrix sparse. This makes the Gram Matrix more efficient. The Orthogonal Matrix also makes the Gram Matrix more sparse. The Orthogonal Matix is used to finetun the model. The Orthogonal Matx is a sparse matrix. This means that it has a lot of zero values. The Orthogonal Matxis is used to finetunes the model. The Orthogonlal Matix is used to make the Gram Matix sparse. This makes the gram matrix more efficient. The Orthogonla Matix is also used to make the Gram matrix sparsified. This makes the Gram matrix more efficient. The Gram Matrix is more efficient because it has a lot more zeros than the Orthogonal Matix. The Gram Matrix is less efficient because it has a few more ones than the Orthogonal Matxis. The Gram Matrix is not as efficient as the Orthogonal Matxis because it has a lot fewer zeros than the Orthogonal Matrix. This means that
