--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model" introduces Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) as an alternative to the usual RLHF pipeline like PPO. What is DPO?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model" introduces Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) as an alternative to the usual RLHF pipeline like PPO. What is DPO?<|EOT|>Direct Preference Optimization (DPO; Schulman et al., 2017) is a model-based approach for training language models to adhere to human preferences. It does not rely on a separate reinforcement learning (RL) agent, but instead uses the language model itself to optimize towards a user-specified reward function that captures the preference. The key insight is that any Markov decision process (MDP) can be exactly represented by a suitable language model, and thus the MDP can be solved by optimizing the language model to maximize the reward under an additional reward function. This is in contrast to standard approaches that use reinforcement learning from human preferences (RLHF) to train an RL agent in an approximate way.

The basic idea of DPO is to transform the RL problem into a supervised learning problem. This is done by defining a reward function that maps any history to a real number representing the desirability of that particular history. The goal of the language model is then to maximize the reward it receives in any interaction with a user. Formally, the reward function is defined as the expected sum of future rewards in the MDP, starting from the current state. The reward function is specified by the user as part of the DPO procedure. Once the reward function is specified, the DPO training procedure is identical to regular supervised language modeling training. The training set for the language model consists of interactions with a human user, where the language model gets to choose an action, experiences the subsequent state and the associated reward, and the user provides a binary label for the reward. These interactions are used to train the language model to predict the rewards provided by the user.

DPO has several advantages over standard RLHF methods. First, it is exact, in the sense that it optimizes the true reward function specified by the user, rather than an approximation of it. Second, it is stable, in the sense that the language model only needs to learn a single objective, rather than balancing several objectives like RLHF methods. Third, it is sample-efficient, in the sense that only a single interaction is needed to provide the training signal for the reward prediction objective. Finally, it is scalable, in the sense that there is no need to limit the complexity of the MDP, since the language model can represent arbitrarily complex MDPs.

However, DPO also has some limitations. First, it requires the specification of a reward function, which can be difficult or impossible to do in some cases. Second, it assumes that the MDP is stationary, meaning that the transition and reward functions do not change over time. This is a reasonable assumption in many cases, but not always. Third, it requires the solution of the Bellman optimality equation, which can be computationally expensive for large MDPs. Despite these limitations, DPO offers a promising alternative to standard RLHF methods for training language models to follow human preferences.<|endoftext|>
