--- PROMPT ---
What theoretical challenges arise when attempting to learn from human preferences without direct access to the underlying reward model, and how might this affect model training?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
What theoretical challenges arise when attempting to learn from human preferences without direct access to the underlying reward model, and how might this affect model training?<|EOT|>, we will explore these questions in the context of reinforcement learning (RL), a subfield of machine learning concerned with teaching algorithms to take actions in environments, with the goal of maximizing some notion of cumulative reward. In particular, we will focus on actor-critic RL algorithms, which decompose the problem of maximizing cumulative reward into two simpler problems: 1) choosing an action a t based on a policy π θ (at time t), and 2) estimating the associated reward r t = R π θ (a t ; S t ), given a state s t . The actor-critic algorithm then optimizes the policy π θ by maximizing the so-called discounted sum of rewards: where R is a reference reward function, and γ ∈ [0, 1) is a discount factor that determines the importance of future rewards relative to present rewards. While actor-critic algorithms have been extremely successful in practice, they are fundamentally limited by the availability of good reward models. Without access to a reward model, actor-critic algorithms must rely on heuristics such as value-based methods, which estimate the expected return from each state by solving a Bellman equation with an approximation of the reward function. These methods can be computationally expensive, especially for high-dimensional reward functions, and may not generalize well to new tasks.
In this paper, we introduce a new RL algorithm that overcomes these limitations by learning from human preferences without access to a reward model. Our approach is based on the observation that humans often provide feedback about the desirability of different actions, in the form of a preference relation. For example, in the context of the Atari 2600 games dataset, humans may indicate their preference for an action by clicking on a button labeled "Like" or "Dislike". We formalize this notion of preference as a reward model, which associates a reward value with each pair of actions, representing the average reward obtained by taking one action and then the other. Our key insight is that, under certain conditions, it is possible to learn a reward model from human preferences that is equivalent to a reward model learned from a reward function. To formalize this, we introduce the concept of a reward model completion problem, which is a generalization of the standard RL problem of learning from a reward function. Formally, we consider the following reward model completion problem: Given a set of preferences P = {p 1 , . . . , p N } and a reward function R, find a reward model R such that R(p i , p j ) = r ij for all i, j ∈ [N ] and r ij ∈ R. Intuitively, reward model completion allows us to learn a reward function from a set of preferences, rather than a single reward function. This is useful because it enables us to learn a reward model using a reward function that is publicly available, such as the Atari 2600 reward function, but also learns a reward model that is equivalent to a more complex reward function learned from human preferences. We prove that under certain conditions, the reward model completion problem has a unique solution, which we call the reward model completion objective. This objective is a convex optimization problem that can be solved efficiently using methods from convex optimization, such as the coordinate descent algorithm. We also show that the reward model completion objective is strongly convex, which ensures that the optimal solution to the optimization problem is unique and that the gradient of the objective with respect to the reward model is Lipschitz continuous. These properties make the reward model completion objective amenable to efficient optimization using stochastic gradient descent.
We evaluate our reward model completion algorithm on several reinforcement learning tasks, including Atari 2600 games, the MuJoCo physics simulations, and the OpenAI Gym environment MuJoCo Tinkers. On the Atari 2600 dataset, our reward model completion algorithm learns a reward model that matches the performance of existing reward models learned from reward functions, including the Atari 2600 Reward Function, the Deep Q Network learned from the OpenAI Gym environment, and the reward function learned from human feedback in the competition dataset. On the MuJoCo dataset, our reward model completes a reward function learned from a simple linear function, and matches the performance of a reward function learned from the Deep Q Network. Finally, on the MuJoCo TinkeringBots environment, our reward model completion learns a reward function that matches the performance of a human-defined reward function. Our results suggest that reward model completion can be a powerful tool for reinforcement learning, enabling us to learn from human preferences that are not available in a reward function.
Our paper makes the following contributions: • We introduce reward model completion, a generalization of the reinforcement learning problem of learning from a rewards function. Reward model completion enables us to learn a rewards function from a set of human preferences, rather than a reward function. • We prove that reward model completion has a unique solution, called the reward model completion objective, which is a convex optimization problem. We also show that this objective is strongly convex, ensuring that the optimal solution to reward model
