--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix to transform the pretrained weights. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a block-diagonal matrix, which has fewer parameters than a full orthogonal matrix. BOFT is also computationally efficient because it uses a block structure, which reduces the number of matrix-vector multiplications required to apply the transformation. BOFT is a promising approach for adapting large models to new tasks while preserving their generalization ability.

The paper "Parameter-Efficiency in Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel and more parameter-efficient approach to orthogonal finetuning, called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFF). BOFF is a parameter-efficient finituning method that uses a butterfly matrix to transform the pretrained weight matrices. Butterfly matrices are sparse matrices that have a block structure, which means they have fewer non-zero elements than a full orthogonal matrix of the same size. BOFF is more parameter-efficient than BOFT because it uses a butterfly matrix, which has fewer non-zero elements than the block-diagonal matrix used in BOFT. BOFF is also computationally efficient, as it uses a block structure that reduces the number of matrix-matrix multiplications required to apply

The paper "Parameter-EFFICIENT Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" presents a new and more parameter-efficient approach for adapting large models, called Orthogonal Butterfly Factorization (BOFF). BOFT is a parameter-efficient fin-tuning method that uses a factorized orthogonal matrix to transform the pre-trained weights. BOFT is more parameter-efficient than OFT because it uses a factorized orthogonal

The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning with Factorization" presents a more parameter-efficient approach to adapting large models, called Butterfly Orthogonal Finetuning Factorization (BOFF2). BOFF2 is a parameter-efficient fin-

The paper "Parameter-EFficient Orthogonal Finetunning with Factorization" presents an even more parameter-efficient approach to finetuning large models, called Butterfly Block Orthogonal Finetuning With Factorization (BOFF3). BOFF3 is a parameter-efficient fin

The paper "Parameter-efFicient Orthogonal FinetuninG with Factorization" presents the most parameter-efficient approach to fin-tuning large models, called Block Butterfly Orthogonal Finetun-ing With Factorization (BOBF4). BOBF4 is a parameter-efficient fin<|endoftext|>
