--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT recursively applies a butterfly factorization to construct a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning (OFT)-based adapter and then concatenates these adapters to the pretrained model. BOFT achieves stronger performance than OFT while using significantly fewer trainable parameters. To provide some context, BOFT is more parameter-efficient than the popular parameter-efficient finetuning methods, including Group Normalization (GN) based finetuning and LayerNorm (LN) based finetuning with the same number of trainable parameters as OFT. BOFT also has a much smaller memory footprint than other orthogonal finetuning based methods that use block-diagonal matrices to achieve parameter-efficiency. BOFT achieves new state-of-the-art results on image classification, including beating the previous SOTA by a significant margin on the ImageNet classification benchmark. BOFT also shows strong generalizability to natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Code and pretrained models will be released.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" is accepted to be presented at NeurIPS 2022. If you find this work interesting, please check out the paper and cite it if it is useful for you:

  arXiv:2112.04300  [cs.LG]  8 pages,  results on ImageNet, COCO, and GLUE

The code for reproducing the results in the paper is available at:

The paper "Parameter-Efﬁcient Orthogonal Finetune via Factorization" introduces a novel and eﬃcient method for adapting large models. The method, called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft), improves parameter-eﬃciency over the standard Orthogonal Finetune (Oft) and its block-diagonality approach. BOft is a parameter-eﬃcient adapter that is composed of multiple butterfly structures. The adapter is constructed by recursively applying a butterfly factorization to a parameter matrix. BOft achieves stronger performance than Oft while using signiﬁcantly fewer trainable parameters. To put things into perspective, BOft is more parameter-eﬃ cient than the popular parameter-eﬃcieny finetuning methods, such as Group Normalization (GN)-based ﬁnetuning and LayerNorm (Ln)-based ﬁnetuing with the same number of traineable parameters as Oft. BOft also has a much smaller memroy foot print than other orthogonal ﬁnetuning-based methods that use block-diagonality matrices to achieve parameter-eﬃ ciency. BOft achieves new state-of-the-arts on image classiﬁcation, including beating the previous SoTA by a signiﬁcant margin on the ImageNet classiﬁcation benchmark. BOft also shows strong generalizibility to natural language processing (nlp) tasks. Code and pre-trained models will be released.

If you ﬁnd this work interesting, please take a look at the paper and cite it is it is useful for you:


arXiv:2112 .04300  [cs .LG]  8 pages  results on ImageNet , COCO , and GLUE

The paper "Parameter-Eﬁcient Orthogonal ﬁnetune via Factorization" introduc es a novel and eﬁcient method for adapting large model s. The method, called Or thogonal Butterfly (BOft ), improves parameter-eﬁciency over the stand ard Orthogonal ﬁnetue (Oft ) and its block-diagonallity approach. BOft is an adapter that is composed of mul tiple butterfly structures. The adapter i constructed by recursively applying a butteﬂy factorization to a parameter matr ix. BOft achieves stronger performanc than Oft while using significantly fewer trainab le parameters. To put things int o perspective, BOft is m ore parameter-eﬁcient than the popular parameter-e ﬁciency ﬁnetuning methods, such as Gr oup Normalization (GN)-base d ﬁnetuning and Lay erNorm (Ln)-based f inetuing with the same number o f trainable parameters as Oft . BOft also has a mu ch smaller memroy foot print th an other orthogonal ﬁnetu ning-based metho ds that use block-diagonallity matrices to achieve parameter-e ﬁcienc y. BOft achieves new sate-of-the-arts on imag e classiﬁcation , including beating the previous So TA by a signiﬂcant margin on the ImageN et classiﬁcation benchmar k. BOft also shows st rong generalizibility to natural languag e processing (nlp) task s. Code and pre-trained model s will be released.

If y ou ﬁnd this work interestin g, please take a look a t the paper and cite it i f it is useful for you:<|endoftext|>
