--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a block-diagonal orthogonal finetuning method that uses a factorization of the weight matrix to reduce the number of parameters. The BOFT method is based on the idea of using a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix to approximate the weight matrix. This method is more efficient than OFT, which is a block-diagonal approach. The BOFT method can be used to train a model with fewer parameters than the original model. The BOFT method has been shown to be effective in improving the performance of large models. The BOFT method was introduced in 2019 by Li et al. (2019). The BOFT method is a block-diagonal method that uses a factorized weight matrix to reduce the parameter count. The BOFT method uses a block-diagonal orthogonal transformation to approximate the weight matrix, which is more efficient than the block-diagonal OFT method. The BOFT method reduces the number of parameters by using a block-diagonal matrix. The BOFT method improves the performance of large models by reducing the number of parameters. This method is more effective than the OFT method, which is a block diagonal approach. The BOFT algorithm is a block-diagonal algorithm that uses a factorized matrix to reduce the number parameters. The BOFT algorithm uses a block-diagonal matrix to approximate the weight matrices. The BOFT algorithm reduces the number of parameters compared to the original model. The block-diagonal OFT algorithm is a block-diagram approach that uses a block-diagonal weight matrix to reduce the parameters. The block-diagonal method is more efficient than the OFT method. The block-diagonal approach is more efficient than the orthogonal approach. The BOFT approach is more efficient than OFTs. The BOFT method achieves better performance than the OFT method.

The BOFT method is a method that uses a block-diagram to reduce the number of weights. The BOFT method involves using a block-diagonal transformation to approximate the weight matrices, which reduces the number of parameters. BOFT is a block-diagonal technique that uses a factorized orthogonal matrix to reduce the number. The BOFT method provides a more efficient way to train large models. The BOFF method is a block-diagram method that uses a factorised orthogonal matrix to reduce the parameter. The BOFT method increases the performance of large models compared to the OFT method. BOFT is a method that uses block-diagonal matrices to reduce the number of weight parameters. The BOFT approach reduces the number of parameters in the model. The BOFT algorithm can be used to train large models with fewer parameters. The BOFT technique is a block-diagonal strategy that uses a factorized block-diagonal matrix to reduce the number.

The BOFT method uses a factorized orthogonal transformation to reduce the number of parameter. The BOFT algorithm improves the performance of large model by reducing the number of parameter. BOFT is a technique that uses a block-diagoln matrix to reduce the number parameter. The BOFT approach improves the performance of large scale models by reducing the number parameter. The block-diagonal orthogonal method is a method that reduces the number of parameters using a block-diagonal. The BOFT method trains a model with fewer parameters. The block-diagoln method is a method that trains a model with fewer parameter. The BOFT technique reduces the number of parameters used in the model. The block-diagloan method is a method that can be used to train models with fewer parameters. BOFT is an efficient method for training large models. The BOF method is a block-diagolna method that reduces the number parameters. The block-diogonal method is a method that is used to train models with less parameters. The BOFT is a block diagonal method that reduces the number parameter. The method is a block-diogonal method that reduces the number. The BOF method reduces the number of parameter in the model. The method is a method that decreases the number of parameters in a model. The BOFT is an efficient way to train large model. The BOFT technique uses a block-diagonal transformation matrix to reduce the number paramters. The BOFT method decreases the number of parameters used by the model. The BOF method uses a block-diagonal transformation matrix to reduce the parameter.

The BOFT method reduces the parameter count by using a block-diagolnal transformation matrix. The BOFT algorithm trains a model with fewer paramters. The BOF method trains a model with less parameters. The block-diagram method is a method that improves the performance of large-scale models. The BOFT algorithm provides a more efficient way of training large models. The block-diagonal technique is a method that reduces parameter count. The BOF method improves the performance of models by reducing the number. The block-diagonal transformation is a method that reduces parameters. The BOFT training method is a block-diagonl method that reduces the number.

The BOF method is a method that increases the performance of large-scale model. The BOFT training algorithm is a method that reduces model parameters. The
