--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is an instance of angular finetuning (AFT) family that ensures the pair-wise neuron angles are orthogonal after finetuning. To achieve this, OFT uses Cayley parametrization to transform a linear layer into an equivalent rotation layer, and then finetunes the rotation weights using an orthogonal matrix. OFT has proven to be a powerful and flexible adapter for adapting text-to-image diffusion models to downstream tasks. Most importantly, OFT is able to recover full-fledged SFT's performance on controlling images. In addition to controlling images, the paper also demonstrates the effectiveness of OFT in other applications such as subject-driven generation and text-to-image diffusion model adaptation. The paper has been accepted to NeurIPS 2022 and the code will be released shortly.

Controlling Text-to-Images with Orthogonal Finetuning
Standard finetuning (STFT) [34] and LoRA [35] are two popular methods for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models. STFT works by finetuning all the weights of a text-to-image diffusion model, while LoRA only finetunes a small portion of the weights (usually 10% of the weights) with a low learning rate. Despite their simplicity, both STFT and LoRA fail to preserve the semantic generation ability of the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model. To address this shortcoming, [29,30] propose to finetune the text encoder using a reconstruction loss, together with a class-specific finetuning method for finetuning the diffusion model. More specifically, SFT [29] updates the text encoder by finetuning the text encoder using an angular reconstruction loss between the original and reconstructed diffusion latent codes, and then finetune the diffusion model with a standard finetuning method such as Adam. Although SFT successfully preserves the semantic generation ability ofthe pretrained text-to-image diffusion models, SFT suffers from a serious convergence issue [30]: the angular reconstruction loss can only constrain the difference between the original and reconstructed latent codes up to a rotation, such that the angular reconstruction loss cannot converge when the latent codes differ substantially. To address this short-coming, VINS [30] proposes to additionally finetune the text embedding using a reconstruction loss, such that the reconstructed latent code can be arbitrarily deviated from the original latent code (as long as the generated image remains the same). Despite fixing the convergence issue of SFT, VINS introduces an additional latent variable and suffers from increased model complexity. More importantly, both SFT and VINS fail to provide a principled finetuning framework that can guarantee the preservation of the neural network's universal approximation ability [36] and generalization ability [37]. In contrast, we propose orthogonal finetuning (OFT ), a flexible and principled finetuning method that can guarantee the preservationof the neural network's universal approximator and generalization ability. OFT is able to reproduce SFT's performance of controlling images, while also introducing no additional latency to the finetuned model. Most importantly, OF T provides a general finetuning framework that enables us to adapt text-to-image diffusion modelsto various downstream tasks, such as subject-driven generation [38,39] and sketch-to-image translation [40,41].

From Angle Constrained Finetuning to Orthogonal Finetuning

Angle Constrained Finetuning (AFT)
We start by introducing a generic finetuning method, angle constrained finetuning (Aft). Similar to SFT, Aft finetunes the text encoder by minimizing an angular reconstruction loss betweenthe original and reconstructed latent codes, and then applies a standard finetuning methods such as Adam to finetune the diffusion models. Formally, Aft optimizes the neural network by minimizing the following loss: where θ denotes the neural network parameters, L ang is the angular reconstruction loss between theoriginal and reconstructed latent codes, L diff is a diffusion model finetuning loss, and α and β are hyperparameters. Despite the angular reconstruction loss being able to constrain the difference between the reconstructed and original latent codes up to a rotational transformation, the angular reconstruction loss alone is still unable to guarantee that the pair-wise neuron angles in the same layer are orthogonal after finetun-ing (Figure 2(a) and 2(b)). For example, the pair-wise neuron angles (∠1 and ∠2, ∠3 and ∠4) in the same layer of the finetuned model in Figure 2(a) are not orthogonal, while the pair-wise neuron angles of the pretrained model in Figure 2(b) are orthogonal. To enforce the pair-wise neuron angles to be orthogonal after finetuning, we propose a simple extension to Aft by additionally minimizing the cosine similarity between pair-wise neuron angles. More specifically, we minimize ∑ ∠i ∠j cos(∠i ∠j ) for all pair-wise neuron angles ∠i and ∠j in the same layer, where ∠i and ∃j denotes pair-wise neuron angles
