--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a technique that modifies the parameters of a pretrained diffusion model by adding a small orthogonal matrix to the original parameters. This orthogonal matrix is chosen to minimize the Frobenius norm of the resulting parameters. OFT has been shown to be effective in improving the performance of text-to-image generation models, but it has not been explored for controlling the diffusion process itself. In this paper, we present a method for controlling the diffusion process by OFT. Our method, called OFT-Controlling Diffusion, is based on the observation that the diffusion process can be controlled by adjusting the magnitude of the orthogonal matrix. We show that OFT-Controlling diffusion can be used to control the diffusion process by adjusting the magnitude of an orthogonal matrix. We also demonstrate that OFT-Controllable Diffusion can be used to control diffusion in a variety of ways, including controlling the speed of diffusion, controlling the direction of diffusion, and controlling the number of iterations of diffusion. We also present a method for generating images from text using OFT-Controllable diffusion. We show that OFTs-Controllable diffusion can be used to generate images from text with high fidelity. Finally, we present a method to generate images from text using OFTs-Controllable Diffusion. We show that OFts-Controllable Diffusion is able to generate images with high fidelity. We also present a comparison between OFTs-Controllable and OFTs-Controlling Diffusion. We show both methods are effective in controlling the diffusion process. We also present a comprehensive analysis of the performance of OFTs-Controllable. We show that OFTS-Controllable is able to generate images from text at a higher quality than OFTs-Controlling. We also present a detailed analysis of the performance of both methods. We show that OFs-Controllable Diffusion generates images with higher fidelity than OFTs-Containing Diffusion. We also present a thorough analysis of the performance of the two methods. We show that both methods are effective in generating images from text. We also present a comparative analysis of the two methods. Our results indicate that OFTs-Controlling diffusion is more effective than OFTs-Controllable in generating images from text.

Introduction
Text-to-image generation (T2I) is a field that aims to generate images from text descriptions. This field has seen significant progress in recent years, with many models achieving state-of-the-art results on benchmarks such as ImageNet [1] and MS-COCO [2]. However, these models are trained on large datasets, which are often not publicly available. To address this, researchers have developed methods for training text-to-image models using only a small subset of the original dataset. These methods typically involve finetuning a pretrained text-to-image model on a smaller dataset. One such method is Orthogonal Finetuning [3], which uses an orthogonal matrix to modify the parameters of a pretrained text-to-image network. This method has been shown to improve the performance of text-toimage models.
However, finetuning methods such as OFT have limitations. For example, they do not preserve the geometric structure of neurons, which can lead to problems such as the loss of edges and the appearance of artifacts. Additionally, finetuning methods can result in models that are less robust to adversarial attacks. To address these limitations, researchers have proposed methods that control the diffusion process of text-to-image models. These methods include methods such as LoRA [4], which uses a low-rank matrix to control the diffusion process. Another method is the Additive Finetuning (AddFin) [5], which uses a linear transformation to control the diffusion process.
In this paper, we present OFT-Controlling, a method for controlling the text-to-image diffusion process by OFT, which is based on the observation made in [6] that the diffusion process can also be controlled by adjusting the magnitudes of the orthogonal matrix. OFT-Controlling is a method for controlling the magnitude of the orthogonal transformation. We show that OFt-Controlling can be used to control both the speed and direction of diffusion. We also show that OFT- Controlling can be used to generate text-to-image pairs with high fidelity. We present a method for generating text-to-image pairs using OFT-Controlling. We show that OFS-Controllable Diffusion produces images with higher fidelity than the OFTs-Controlling method. We also present a quantitative analysis of the performance of our method. We show that OFSt-Controllable Diffusion outperforms OFTs-Controlling in terms of both image quality and robustness to adversarial attacks. We also present a qualitative analysis of the performance of these methods. We show that the OFT-Controlling method produces images with higher fidelity and more realistic appearance than the OFTs- Controlling method. We also show that the OFT-controlling method is more robust to adversarial attacks than the OFTs- controlling method. We present a comprehensive analysis of OFT-Controlling and OFTs-Controllable,
