--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT is based on a novel factorization of the orthogonal matrix, which enables a more efficient parameterization than the block-diagonal approach used in OFT. BOFT is easy to implement and can be used as a drop-in replacement for standard finetuning methods. BOFT achieves strong performance across a range of tasks and model sizes, often matching or surpassing the performance of fully finetuned models while using significantly fewer trainable parameters. BOFT is a simple yet powerful parameter-efficient finetuning technique that can be used to adapt a wide range of large pretrained models to downstream task with great performance.

The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces related work. Section 3 reviews the background knowledge. Section 4 introduces the OFT and its block-diagonal variant. Section 5 introduces the BOFT. Section 6 introduces the experiments and results. Section 7 concludes the paper.

Related Work
Finetuning. Finetuning is a simple and effective approach for adapting large pretrained models to downstream downstream tasks (Devlin et al., 2018;Liu et al., 2019;Brown et al., 2020;Chen et al., 2021;Liu et al. 2021;He et al., 2022;Li et al., 2023). Generally, finetuning methods can be divided into two categories: full finetuning and parameter-efficient finetuning. Full finetuning (e.g., vanilla finetuning (VFT)) initializes all weights in the pretrained model with zeros. Parameter-efficient finetuning (e. g., Group Normalization (GN) (Wang et al., 2017), Layer Normalization (LN) (Ba et al., 2016), Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) (Li et al., 2015), Knowledge Distillation (Hinton et al., 2014), Orthogonal Finetuning .) uses a small subset of trainable parameters to finetune the pretrained model. Among parameter-efficient finetuning methods, LN and GN are widely used activation normalization methods. PEFT uses a small subset of fully connected layers to finetune the entire pretrained model. Knowledge distillation finetuning methods typically distill the classification probability output of a large teacher model into a student model. Orthogonal finetuning is a parameter-efficient finettuning method that adapts a pretrained model by learning an orthogonal matrix to transform the pretrained features.
Block-diagonal OFT. To further reduce the number of trainable parameters, Sun et al. (2022) propose a block-diagonal variant of OFT, which partitions the orthogonal matrix into multiple block-diagonal matrices and sets the off-diagonal elements of each matrix to zero. Although the block-diagonal OFT reduces the number of trainable parameters significantly, it introduces blocking artifacts into the learned orthogonal matrix, which hurts the performance. In addition, the block size in the block-diagonal OFTs (e.g., Sun et al. (Sun et al., 2024); Wang et al. (Wang et al.), 2023) is set to 4 or 8 by trial and error, which is not principled.

Background Knowledge
In this section, we will introduce some background knowledge that will be useful for understanding the BOFT. We first introduce some basic knowledge of orthogonal matrix in Section 4.1, then introduce the OFT in Section 4.2, and finally introduce the block-diagonal OFt in Section 4.3.

Orthogonal Matrix
An orthogonal matrix Q ∈ R n×n is a square matrix whose columns and rows are orthonormal vectors, i.e., Q T Q = I, where Q T is the transpose of Q and I is an identity matrix. An orthogonal matrix preserves the length of vectors and the angle between vectors, i.e., for any vector x ∈ R n , we have x T Q T Qx = x T x and x T Q T y = y T Qx for any vector y ∈ R n . An orthogonal matrix represents a rotation or reflection in Euclidean space. For example, the rotation matrix in 2D and 3D spaces are orthogonal matrices. The special orthogonal group SO(n) is the set of all orthogonal matrices with determinant 1. The special orthogonal group represents rotations in Euclidean space. The general orthogonal group O(n) is the set all orthogonal matrices, which includes rotations and reflections. The orthogonal group represents all linear transformations that preserve the inner product of vectors.

OFT
The OFT was proposed by . The OFT adapts a pretrained model M by learning an orthogonal matrix Θ ∈ R n×n to transform the pretrained features, i.e., where x is an input, M is a pretrained model, Θ is an orthogonal matrix learned by OFT, and • denotes the matrix multiplication. The loss function of OFT is where y is the label of x
