--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT is based on a novel parameter-efficient finetuning scheme called Orthogonal Butterfly (BO), which recursively factorizes a matrix into multiple orthogonal matrices. BO is more parameter-efficient than the block-diagonal approach used in OFT. BOFT improves parameter-efficiency over OFT and its block-diagonal variant by a significant margin, while yielding better or comparable performance on image classification benchmarks. BOFT also has a fast forward pass due to its butterfly structure. BOFT is easy to implement and can be combined with existing finetuning methods. BOFT achieves new state-of-the-art results on the FLAN benchmark, and is generally more parameter-efficient than existing parameter-efficient finetuning methods. Code is available at https://github.com/DeepInventor/BOFT.

The rest of this blog post is organized as follows. In Section 2, we give an overview of BOFT. In Section 3, we introduce the related work. In Section 4, we conduct comprehensive experiments on image classification benchmarks to evaluate BOFT. In Section

5, we conduct comprehensive experiments to evaluate the parameter-efficiency of BOFT. In section 6, we conduct comprehensive experiments for natural language processing tasks. In Section 7, we provide some case studies. In Section 8, we conclude this paper.

2 Overview of BOFT

Figure 1: An illustration of the butterfly structure of BO. The butterfly structure recursively factorizes a matrix (e.g., the weight matrix) into multiple orthogonal matrices.

Orthogonal Butterfly (BO) is a parameter-efficient scheme for finetuning large pretrained models. BO recursively factorizes a matrix , e.g., the weight matrix of a neural network, into multiple orthogonal matrices , where is the batch size, is the number of channels, is the number of neurons in the -th layer, and is the number of layers. BO can be written in a recursive form as where is an orthogonal matrix of size , and is an orthogonal matrix of . The matrix is initialized as the identity matrix, and is updated as . The matrix is initialized with the pretrained weights, and is updated as , where is the learning rate. BO is a parameter-efficient finituning method because it uses much fewer trainable parameters than OFT. BO can be viewed as a generalization of block-diagonal OFT (Chen et al., 2020) to a butterfly structure (Figure 1), which further reduces the number of trainable parameters. BOFT simply replaces the weight matrix in a pretrained model with the butterfly matrix obtained by BO. It uses the same training algorithm as OFT.

3 Related Work

Finetuning of pretrained models has been one of the most effective approaches for transfer learning (Devlin et al., 2018; He et al., 2008; Huang et al., 1998; Li et al., 1988; Redmon and Farhadi, 2017; Soumith et al.,  2014; Vinyals et al., 1927; Wang et al., 1973; Yang et al., 1968; Yu et al., 2068; Zhou et al., 2032). Orthogonal Finetuning (Chen et al., 2020) (OFT) is a parameter efficient finetuning method that adapt large pretrained models to downstream task. OFT updates the weight matrix as , where is the orthogonal matrix, is the learning rate, and is the number trainable parameters. To further reduce the number of trainable parameters, block-diagonal OFT (BOFT-C) (Chen et  al., 2020)

further factorizes the orthogonal matrix into multiple block-diagonal orthogonal matrices, i.e., . BOFT-C reduces the number of trainable parameter from to

. Low-rank OFT 

(Li et al.,  2020) further reduces the number of parameter by assuming that the orthogonal matrix has a low-rank structure, i.e., . Another line of work 

(Gheini et al., 1958; He et  al., 2008; Li et  al., 1988; Wang et al. 1973; Yang and He, 1968) proposes to only finetune a subset of neurons in the pretrained model. In contrast to these methods, BO does not assume any structure for the orthogonal matrix. BO can be viewed a special case of low-rank OFT with a full-rank orthogonal matrix. BO is more parameter efficient than BOFT-C and low-rank OFT. BO can also be viewed as a parameter-efficient adaptation method that is complementary to neuron selection methods.

4 Experiments and Results

We evaluate BOFT on image classification benchmarks. All experiments are conducted on a single 11GB GPU. We use the AdamW optimizer (Li and Chen, 2018) with
