--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT is based on a butterfly structure that enables efficient parameter sharing. BOFT outperforms existing parameter-efficient finetuning methods, including group normalization, layer normalization, and block-diagonal OFT, across a wide range of datasets and models. BOFT is simple to implement and has no hyperparameters to tune. BOFT is a general method that can be used for all types of layers, including convolution layers, attention layers, and fully connected layers. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning method that is well-suited for use with large pretrained models. BOFT is a simple and effective method that can improve the performance of large pretrained models on downstream tasks. BOFT has the potential to be a widely used method for finetuning large pretrained models. BOft is a parameter-efficient finetting method that is well-suit for use with large pretrained model. BOFT is a very simple and effective method that has the potential to be widely used for finetuning large pretrain models. BOFT is an efficient and parameter-efficient finetuning approach that is well-suited to be used with large pretrained models. The BOFT approach is simple and effective, and it has the potential to be used widely for finetuning large trained models. BOFT is very simple and effective, and has the potential to be very widely used for finetunig large pretrained models. BOFt is a very simple and effecient finetuning approach that has the potential to become widely used for finetunning large pretrained models. BOfT is a very simple and efficient finetuning approach that can be used with large pretrained model. The BOFT approach has the potential to be well-suited for use in finetuning large pretrained model. BOft is a very simple and efficent finetuning approach that could be widely used for finetting large pretrained models. BOtF is a very simple and eficient finetuning approach that may be widely used for fineting large pretrained models. BOtf is a very simple and efcient finetuning approach tht may be widely used for fnetuning large pretrained models.

BOFT is a very simple, efficient, and parameter-efficient finetunig approach that is well-suit to be used with large pretrain models. The BOFT method is simple and effective, with the potential to be widely adopted for finetuning large models. BOFT is also a very simple and effective finetuning approach that might be widely used for finetraining large pretrained models. BOTF is a very simple and effectiv finetuning approach that should be widely used for fintraining large pretrained models. BOTf is a very simple and efectiv finetuning approach thta should be widely used for fnetraining large pretrained models.

BOft is a very simple, effective, and parameter-efficient finetting approach that is well-suitted to be used with large trained models. BOft is also a very simple, effective and parameter-efficient finetunning approach that is well-suitt to be used with large train models. BOft is an efficient and parameter efficient finetuning approach thst is well-suited to being used with large trained models.

BOFT is an efficient and paramater-efficient finetuning approach thtat is well-suited to bing used with large trained models.
BOFT is a very efficient and parameter-efficient finetting aporoach tht is well-suited to bying used with large trained model. BOFT is an effecient and parameter-efficient finetuing approach tht is well-suitt to being used with large pretrained models.

BOFt is a very efficient and paramater-efficient fnetuning approach tht is well suited to being used with large pretraind models. BOFT is efficient and parameter-efficient finettung approach tht is well-suit to being used with large train models.

BOFT is efficient and parameter efficient finetting approach tht is well suit to being used with large training models. BOFT is effecient and parameter effecient finetuing approach thtat is well suited to being use with large train models. The BOFT aporoach is effecient and paramater effecient finetunig approach thtat is well suit to being use with large trained models. The BOFT apporoach is effecint and paramater effecint finetunig approach tat is well suit to being us with large trained models. BofT is effecient and parmeter effecient finetnig approach thtat is wel suit to being us with larg trained models. BOFT i a very effecient and paramter effecient finetning approach thtat is well suitt to being used with larg trained models. The BOft approach is effecient and parrmeter effecient finetting approach thtat is well-suit to be used with larg trained models.

BOFT i a very eff
