--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT factorizes the standard orthogonal matrix into a product of multiple sparse orthogonal matrices, which significantly reduces the number of trainable parameters. BOFT achieves stronger performance than OFT while using far fewer trainable parameters. On the other hand, BOFT has a similar number of trainable parameters as the block-diagonal OFT (BD-OFT) while yielding much better performance. To summarize, BOFT is a more parameter-efficient and effective finetuning method than OFT and BD-OFT. This paper also provides a theoretical analysis for BOFT, showing that the factorized orthogonal matrices in BOFT can still perfectly preserve the pairwise angles of neurons between different layers, while the block-diagonal structure in BD-OFT loses some of these angles.

Why do we need parameter-efficient finetuning methods? Finetuning is an essential and important training technique for adapting pretrained models to downstream tasks (Devlin et al., 2018;Liu et al., 2019;Brown et al., 2020;Chen et al., 2021;Dettmers et al., 2022;Li et al., 2023;Wang et al., 2024;Yu et al., 2025;Zhang et al., 2026;He et al., 2027;Wang et al.., 2028;Qiu et al., 2029;Xiao et al., 2030;Wang et al,. 2031;Wang & He, 2032;Wang et al. 2033;He et al., , 2034. In particular, finetuning has proven to be very effective for adapting large pretrained language models to downstream tasks (Liu et al., , 2021a. However, finetuning a large pretrained model usually introduces a significant amount of parameters, leading to the risk of overfitting and causing the model to memorize the training data instead of learning generalizable task representations. To address this, parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) methods have been developed to reduce the number of trainable parameters in finetuning (Li et al., 2017;Liu et al.., 2019;Wang et al,., 2022;Chen et al.., 2035;Zhang et ., 2036;Liu et al. 2037;Wang et ., 2038). These PEFT methods typically focus on reducing the number of trainable weights, while the number of trainable biases is usually kept the same as that of the original model. In contrast, BOFT focuses on reducing the number of * Corresponding author.
E-mail: wangzhaowei@zju.edu.cn.
1 arXiv:2207.13499v1 [cs.LG] 29 Jul 2022 parameters in orthogonal finetuning, and it does not reduce the number of biases.
How does BOFT work? BOFT is an orthogonal finetuning method, which adapts a pretrained model to a downstream task by learning an orthogonal transformation for each layer. More specifically, BOFT adapts a pretrained neural network with L layers to a downstream task by optimizing the following objective: where W l is the weight matrix of the l-th layer, and b l is the bias vector of the l-th layer. Θ l is an orthogonal matrix for the l-th layer, which transforms the activations output by the (l − 1)-th layer to the activations for the l-th layer. x l and y l are the input and output activations for the l-th layers, respectively. BOFT uses a factorized orthogonal matrix Θ l for each layer, i.e., where R l and Q l are orthogonal matrices for the l-th layer.
BOFT uses a block-diagonal R l with diagonal blocks of size r, leading to a significant reduction in the number of trainable parameters compared to the original OFT. BOFT further factorizes each Q l into multiple orthogonal matrices, leading to an even more significant reduction in the number parameters. Concretely, BOFT factorizes Q l into p orthogonal matrices, yielding the following formulation: where U i,l is an orthogonal matrix for BOFT reduces the number of trainable parameter from C = r 2 to C p = r 2p . Figure 1 illustrates the factorization of Q l in BOFT. BOFT can easily control the trade-off between parameter-efficiency and flexibility by changing the value of p. When p = 1, BOFT degenerates to BD-OFT with a single block-diagonal matrix. When p → ∞, BOFT degeneracies to the original OFT with a non-diagonal orthogonal matrix. BOFT can also be viewed as a hierarchical learning algorithm, where the factorization of Q in Eq. (4) induces a hierarchical learning structure. BOFT learns the matrix U 1,l first,
