----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive fatigue and generalised weakness.
answer: "fatigue and generalised weakness"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive symptoms described as "fatigue and generalised weakness".

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Investigations showed pancytopenia, dimorphic anaemia, severe vitamin B12 deficiency, hepatic fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis.
answer: "dimorphic anaemia"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s with a 5-year history of progressive fatigue and generalised weakness underwent investigations that also showed pancytopenia, severe vitamin B12 deficiency, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, and the type of anaemia identified on those investigations was "dimorphic anaemia".

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite correction of nutritional deficiencies, the constellation of cytopenia, premature greying, osteoporosis, hepatic and pulmonary fibrosis raised suspicion of a genetic disorder.
answer: premature greying
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after nutritional deficiencies were corrected in a woman in her late 20s, the remaining constellation of findings that still raised suspicion of a genetic disorder included cytopenia, osteoporosis, hepatic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, and premature greying.

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite correction of nutritional deficiencies, the constellation of cytopenia, premature greying, osteoporosis, hepatic and pulmonary fibrosis raised suspicion of a genetic disorder.
answer: a genetic disorder
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after the patient's nutritional deficiencies were corrected, she still had cytopenia, premature greying, osteoporosis, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, and this constellation of findings led clinicians to suspect a genetic disorder.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg), classified as a Variant of Uncertain Significance.
answer: Variant of Uncertain Significance
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis identified a monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg), which was classified as Variant of Uncertain Significance.

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Germline pathogenic variants in PARN have been associated with dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6) and with telomere-related pulmonary fibrosis and/or bone marrow failure 4.
answer: dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", germline pathogenic variants in PARN have been linked to several disorders, including the condition designated as DKCB6, which is dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6.

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Germline pathogenic variants in PARN have been associated with dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6) and with telomere-related pulmonary fibrosis and/or bone marrow failure 4.
answer: telomere-related pulmonary fibrosis and/or bone marrow failure 4
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", germline pathogenic variants in PARN have been linked to dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6), and besides DKCB6, they have also been associated with telomere-related pulmonary fibrosis and/or bone marrow failure 4.

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The clinical–genetic correlation in this case supported a diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder (TBD).
answer: "a telomere biology disorder"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s had clinical and genetic findings that were interpreted together as supporting "a telomere biology disorder".

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The clinical–genetic correlation in this case supported a diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder (TBD).
answer: "TBD"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the clinical–genetic correlation supported a diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder abbreviated as "TBD".

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Early recognition is crucial for guiding genetic counselling, surveillance and consideration of bone marrow transplantation in progressive cases.
answer: "genetic counselling"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that early recognition of this progressive telomere biology disorder is important for guiding "genetic counselling"

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Telomere biology disorders (TBDs) are rare premature-ageing syndromes caused by Mendelian defects in telomere-related genes that lead to abnormally short or dysfunctional telomeres.
answer: Mendelian defects in telomere-related genes
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders (TBDs), described in the background as rare premature-ageing syndromes related to abnormal telomeres, are caused by Mendelian defects in telomere-related genes.

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Actively dividing cells, such as bone marrow, skin, mucosa, hair and hepatocytes, are predominantly affected cell groups.
answer: Actively dividing cells
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders are described as premature-ageing syndromes affecting certain cell groups, including bone marrow, skin, mucosa, hair, and hepatocytes, which are predominantly Actively dividing cells.

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: TBD includes numerous clinical phenotypes, with dyskeratosis congenita (DC) being the prototype disease.
answer: dyskeratosis congenita (DC)
statement: In the background of the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders (TBDs) are described as including numerous clinical phenotypes, and the prototype disease is dyskeratosis congenita (DC).

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Other entities include Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome, Revesz syndrome and Coats plus syndrome.
answer: Revesz syndrome
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the background section lists several other telomere biology disorder phenotypes in addition to dyskeratosis congenita, and among the entities named in the sequence Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome, [blank], and Coats plus syndrome, the middle syndrome is Revesz syndrome.

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We describe a woman in her late 20s with prolonged fatigue and multisystem involvement who was ultimately diagnosed with a TBD.
answer: "prolonged fatigue"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s who was ultimately diagnosed with a telomere biology disorder after presenting with multisystem involvement had experienced a prolonged symptom before the diagnosis was made: "prolonged fatigue".

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A woman in her late 20s presented to our tertiary care centre with a 5-year history of progressively worsening generalised weakness and early fatigability.
answer: early fatigability
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented to a tertiary care centre after a 5-year history of progressively worsening generalised weakness accompanied by early fatigability.

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Over the years, her functional capacity declined, reducing her ability to perform daily activities compared with her peers.
answer: her peers
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s had a 5-year history of progressively worsening generalised weakness and reduced functional capacity, and her ability to perform daily activities was reduced compared with her peers.

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the last 3 months, the weakness has worsened to the point of impairing self-care and requiring assistance.
answer: assistance
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s had worsening generalized weakness over the last 3 months, and as the weakness began to impair her self-care, she started requiring assistance.

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also reported exertional dyspnoea, intermittent chest discomfort, weight loss and anorexia.
answer: "anorexia"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive weakness and, over the last 3 months, worsening symptoms including exertional dyspnoea, intermittent chest discomfort, weight loss, and an appetite-related complaint, which was "anorexia".

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notable findings included pallor, icterus, premature greying of hair, knuckle hyperpigmentation and a bald tongue with atrophy of lingual papillae.
answer: premature greying of hair
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s was examined after a 5-year history of progressive weakness and other multisystem findings, and the abnormality of the hair noted on examination was premature greying of hair.

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notable findings included pallor, icterus, premature greying of hair, knuckle hyperpigmentation and a bald tongue with atrophy of lingual papillae.
answer: a bald tongue with atrophy of lingual papillae
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s had several notable examination findings at presentation, including pallor, icterus, premature greying of hair, and knuckle hyperpigmentation, and her tongue finding was a bald tongue with atrophy of lingual papillae.

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Abdominal examination showed hepatomegaly (5 cm below the right costal margin, span 18 cm).
answer: hepatomegaly
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", abdominal examination in the woman in her late 20s who presented with a 5-year history of progressive weakness and multisystem findings revealed hepatomegaly.

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Abdominal examination showed hepatomegaly (5 cm below the right costal margin, span 18 cm).
answer: 18 cm
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during abdominal examination as part of her evaluation for progressive weakness and multisystem disease, a woman in her late 20s had a measured liver span of 18 cm.

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Respiratory examination revealed reduced breath sounds in the bilateral infra-scapular regions.
answer: reduced breath sounds
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s underwent respiratory examination as part of her evaluation for progressive weakness and exertional dyspnoea, and the abnormal finding noted in the bilateral infra-scapular regions was reduced breath sounds.

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Iron studies revealed elevated serum iron and ferritin, consistent with ineffective erythropoiesis (table 1).
answer: "ineffective erythropoiesis"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s initial iron studies showed elevated serum iron and ferritin during the workup for pancytopenia and dimorphic anemia, which were considered consistent with "ineffective erythropoiesis".

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bone marrow examination revealed trilineage haematopoiesis with erythroid hyperplasia and increased iron stores, without evidence of malignancy, dysplasia or infiltrative disease; cytogenetic analysis was also normal.
answer: trilineage haematopoiesis
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the bone marrow examination performed during the workup of pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12/folate deficiency showed trilineage haematopoiesis.

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bone marrow examination revealed trilineage haematopoiesis with erythroid hyperplasia and increased iron stores, without evidence of malignancy, dysplasia or infiltrative disease; cytogenetic analysis was also normal.
answer: normal
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during the evaluation of pancytopenia and ineffective erythropoiesis, the patient underwent bone marrow examination and the cytogenetic analysis was normal.

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Markers of haemolysis included elevated lactate dehydrogenase and indirect hyperbilirubinaemia. The direct antiglobulin test (DAT) was positive for IgG (2+),
answer: "2+"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the strength of the direct antiglobulin test (DAT) positivity for IgG was "2+".

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite this, the low reticulocyte response and marrow findings were more consistent with ineffective erythropoiesis rather than peripheral immune-mediated destruction.
answer: "peripheral immune-mediated destruction"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient had hemolysis markers and a positive direct antiglobulin test, but her low reticulocyte response and bone marrow findings were considered less consistent with "peripheral immune-mediated destruction".

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To evaluate gastrointestinal malabsorption, an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, which appeared macroscopically normal.
answer: "an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy"
statement: During the workup for gastrointestinal malabsorption in this woman with pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, the procedure performed was "an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy".

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To evaluate gastrointestinal malabsorption, an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, which appeared macroscopically normal.
answer: "macroscopically normal"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy performed during the evaluation for gastrointestinal malabsorption in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency was "macroscopically normal".

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Duodenal biopsy showed mild chronic gastritis with reduced parietal cells, possibly contributing to B12 malabsorption via impaired intrinsic factor production.
answer: "intrinsic factor production"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a duodenal biopsy showed mild chronic gastritis with reduced parietal cells, which were thought to contribute to vitamin B12 malabsorption through impairment of "intrinsic factor production".

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, the severity of clinical findings appeared disproportionate to nutritional deficiency alone.
answer: "nutritional deficiency alone"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", despite evaluation for vitamin B12 and folate deficiency and other nutritional issues, the severity of her clinical findings appeared disproportionate to nutritional deficiency alone.

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Transient elastography showed grade II hepatic steatosis (controlled attenuation parameter: 295 dB/m) and cirrhosis (liver stiffness: 18.1 kPa).
answer: 18.1 kPa
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient underwent transient elastography during evaluation of hepatic dysfunction, and the study showed grade II hepatic steatosis and cirrhosis with a liver stiffness value of 18.1 kPa.

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, autoimmune serologies, including antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies, were negative.
answer: "antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during evaluation of hepatic dysfunction, the patient's autoimmune serologic testing included "antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies".

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, autoimmune serologies, including antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies, were negative.
answer: "negative"
statement: During evaluation of hepatic dysfunction after ultrasound and transient elastography showed hepatosplenomegaly, grade II hepatic steatosis, and cirrhosis, the patient's autoimmune serologies, including antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies, were "negative".

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It showed inhomogeneous ¹⁸F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the axial and appendicular bone marrow.
answer: "¹⁸F-fluorodeoxyglucose"
statement: On positron emission tomography–CT performed during the evaluation for occult infiltrative or inflammatory pathology in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia and multisystem disease, the tracer that showed inhomogeneous uptake in the axial and appendicular bone marrow was "¹⁸F-fluorodeoxyglucose"

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Diffuse ground-glass haziness with multiple fibrotic and subpleural atelectatic changes was noted in both lung fields, along with hepatosplenomegaly and ascites, but without evidence of overt malignancy or granulomatous disease (figures 1 and 2).
answer: "Diffuse ground-glass haziness"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a positron emission tomography–CT scan performed during the evaluation of this woman with pancytopenia, hepatosplenomegaly, and lung abnormalities showed pulmonary imaging finding in both lung fields of "Diffuse ground-glass haziness".

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additional findings included secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances (hypocalcaemia, hypokalaemia), vitamin D deficiency and osteoporosis confirmed on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, explaining her recurrent bone pain and fractures (table 3).
answer: dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s had additional findings of secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances, vitamin D deficiency, and recurrent bone pain and fractures, and her osteoporosis was confirmed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry.

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additional findings included secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances (hypocalcaemia, hypokalaemia), vitamin D deficiency and osteoporosis confirmed on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, explaining her recurrent bone pain and fractures (table 3).
answer: vitamin D deficiency
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s additional findings included secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances, and osteoporosis confirmed on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, which helped explain her recurrent bone pain and fractures, along with vitamin D deficiency.

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given the constellation of findings—cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis and neuropathy—a syndromic or genetic aetiology was suspected.
answer: premature greying
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinicians suspected a syndromic or genetic aetiology because of a constellation of findings that included cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, osteoporosis and neuropathy, along with premature greying.

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The identified missense variant alters a highly conserved residue and is predicted to be damaging to the protein function.
answer: a highly conserved residue
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg) in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, which altered a highly conserved residue.

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, the role of the variant in the disease could not be ascertained; therefore, it has been labelled as ‘Variant of Uncertain Significance’.
answer: "Variant of Uncertain Significance"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", because the role of the monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg, exon 8) identified by clinical exome sequencing could not be ascertained, it was classified as "Variant of Uncertain Significance".

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the pathogenicity of this specific variant remains uncertain, the involvement of PARN and the patient’s clinical features are consistent with the spectrum of TBD.
answer: the spectrum of TBD
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient had a monoallelic PARN variant of uncertain significance, and the authors noted that PARN involvement together with her clinical features fit within the broader diagnostic category of the spectrum of TBD.

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient’s presentation with pancytopenia, weight loss, premature greying and fatigue raised suspicion for haematologic, nutritional and autoimmune disorders.
answer: haematologic, nutritional and autoimmune disorders
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient in her late 20s presented with pancytopenia, weight loss, premature greying, and fatigue, and the initially suspected differential diagnosis included haematologic, nutritional and autoimmune disorders.

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Severe vitamin B12 deficiency was confirmed early and accounted for several features, supported by bone marrow evidence of ineffective erythropoiesis.
answer: "Severe vitamin B12 deficiency"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the deficiency confirmed early in the patient’s evaluation and considered to account for several of her findings, supported by bone marrow evidence of ineffective erythropoiesis, was "Severe vitamin B12 deficiency"

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Severe vitamin B12 deficiency was confirmed early and accounted for several features, supported by bone marrow evidence of ineffective erythropoiesis.
answer: "ineffective erythropoiesis"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", severe vitamin B12 deficiency was confirmed early in the workup of a woman with pancytopenia, and the bone marrow findings supported "ineffective erythropoiesis".

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, even after correcting the deficiencies, the systemic dysfunction remained disproportionate and persistent.
answer: disproportionate and persistent
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", even after the patient's severe vitamin B12 deficiency and other nutritional deficiencies were corrected during the workup, the remaining systemic dysfunction was described as disproportionate and persistent.

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An immune-mediated process was briefly considered due to a positive DAT and elevated inflammatory markers.
answer: "a positive DAT"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during evaluation after presenting with pancytopenia, fatigue, and multisystem findings, the laboratory test result that briefly raised the possibility of an immune-mediated process, along with elevated inflammatory markers, was "a positive DAT".

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Hepatic fibrosis (HF) lacked a clear aetiology, with autoimmune and infectious causes excluded.
answer: "autoimmune and infectious causes"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s hepatic fibrosis did not have an obvious cause, and the evaluation excluded autoimmune and infectious causes.

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The unique constellation of premature ageing features, persistent cytopenia and fibrotic involvement of the lungs and liver in a young adult shifted clinical suspicion toward a cryptic inherited disorder.
answer: "cryptic inherited disorder"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the young adult's premature ageing features, persistent cytopenia, and fibrotic involvement of the lungs and liver shifted the clinical suspicion toward a "cryptic inherited disorder".

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the absence of a family history initially argued against hereditary syndrome, a de novo mutation remained a possibility.
answer: "absence of a family history"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the clinicians considered a hereditary syndrome because of the patient’s multisystem findings, but the feature in her history that initially argued against a hereditary syndrome, even though a de novo mutation was still considered possible, was "absence of a family history".

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the absence of a family history initially argued against hereditary syndrome, a de novo mutation remained a possibility.
answer: "a de novo mutation"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s lack of a family history initially argued against an inherited disorder, but in that setting the genetic possibility still considered was "a de novo mutation".

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This led to the hypothesis of a TBD which can mimic acquired conditions and present with variable penetrance.
answer: "a TBD"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after persistent cytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, lung fibrosis, premature greying, osteoporosis and neuropathy in a woman in her late 20s failed to be explained by nutritional deficiency or autoimmune/infectious disease alone, a disorder was hypothesised to account for the multisystem presentation as "a TBD".

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Though rare, it may lack the classical mucocutaneous triad of DC and instead manifest subtly with marrow failure, organ fibrosis and features of accelerated ageing.
answer: "organ fibrosis"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", this rare telomere biology disorder may lack the classical mucocutaneous triad of dyskeratosis congenita while still manifesting with marrow failure, features of accelerated ageing, and "organ fibrosis".

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Supportive treatment included whole blood transfusions for symptomatic anaemia, oral folic acid (1 mg daily) and vitamin D (60 000 IU weekly) with elemental calcium (1000 mg daily) for osteoporosis.
answer: "whole blood transfusions"
statement: The supportive treatment given for the patient's symptomatic anaemia during management, in the same plan that also included oral folic acid and vitamin D with elemental calcium for osteoporosis, was "whole blood transfusions".

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also underwent physiotherapy, and her family received genetic counselling following diagnosis of a TBD.
answer: genetic counselling
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after the diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder (TBD), the patient’s family received genetic counselling.

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During the 2-week follow-up, her blood counts were stable, fatigue improved and no new clinical concerns were reported.
answer: fatigue improved
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", by the 2-week follow-up after symptomatic improvement and stable blood counts were noted, the symptom that had improved was fatigue improved.

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She continues to receive regular outpatient follow-up for surveillance of hepatic and pulmonary function and to monitor the progression of bone marrow or systemic involvement.
answer: hepatic and pulmonary function
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient continues to attend regular outpatient follow-up after diagnosis, during which the specific organ functions being surveilled are hepatic and pulmonary function

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She continues to receive regular outpatient follow-up for surveillance of hepatic and pulmonary function and to monitor the progression of bone marrow or systemic involvement.
answer: bone marrow or systemic involvement
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient continues regular outpatient follow-up after diagnosis, and besides surveillance of hepatic and pulmonary function, the progression being monitored during follow-up is bone marrow or systemic involvement.

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Telomeres, which are repetitive DNA sequences capping chromosome ends, preserve genomic integrity by shielding chromosomes from degradation.
answer: genomic integrity
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences capping chromosome ends and that, by shielding chromosomes from degradation, they preserve genomic integrity.

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under physiological conditions, the enzyme telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein complex that includes telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) and telomerase RNA component (TERC), maintains telomere length through elongation.
answer: "telomerase RNA component"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the telomerase component abbreviated as TERC is "telomerase RNA component".

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, pathogenic variants in genes encoding components of the telomerase complex impair this enzyme’s function, leading to premature telomere attrition, resulting in a group of inherited conditions called TBD.
answer: TBD
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", pathogenic variants in genes encoding components of the telomerase complex impair the enzyme’s function and lead to premature telomere attrition, and the group of inherited conditions resulting from this process is called TBD.

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: X-linked recessive pathogenic variants in DKC1 first established the link between DC and markedly short telomeres, making DC the prototypical TBD.
answer: markedly short telomeres
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", X-linked recessive pathogenic variants in DKC1 first established a link between dyskeratosis congenita (DC) and markedly short telomeres.

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Other recognised manifestations include idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), HF and an increased risk of haematological and solid malignancies.
answer: "haematological and solid malignancies"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion of telomere biology disorders notes several recognised manifestations, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and hepatic fibrosis, and also says that this disorder has an increased risk of "haematological and solid malignancies".

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Severe childhood-onset TBD subtypes—such as HH syndrome, Revesz syndrome and Coats plus syndrome—also result from variants in genes implicated in DC.
answer: HH syndrome
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the syndrome named as a severe childhood-onset telomere biology disorder subtype that can result from variants in genes implicated in dyskeratosis congenita is HH syndrome.

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Severe childhood-onset TBD subtypes—such as HH syndrome, Revesz syndrome and Coats plus syndrome—also result from variants in genes implicated in DC.
answer: Coats plus syndrome
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the severe childhood-onset telomere biology disorder subtype mentioned alongside HH syndrome and Revesz syndrome was Coats plus syndrome.

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: TBDs may present with isolated mucocutaneous, organ-specific or haematological involvement and may manifest in adulthood without the classical DC triad.
answer: the classical DC triad
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion says that telomere biology disorders can present in adulthood even without the classical DC triad.

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Typically, the inherited defect is masked by conditions such as aplastic anaemia, BMFS, IPF, or HF and gastrointestinal diseases.
answer: aplastic anaemia
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that inherited telomere defects may be masked by several clinical conditions, including the haematological condition aplastic anaemia.

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Without the classical triad and due to delayed clinical presentation, these patients are frequently misdiagnosed, especially when not seen in specialised centres.
answer: "delayed clinical presentation"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that telomere biology disorders may present in adulthood without the classical dyskeratosis congenita triad and that, in addition to this absence, the factor contributing to these patients being frequently misdiagnosed, especially outside specialised centres, is "delayed clinical presentation".

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Monoallelic variants in TERT, TERC and RTEL1 are typically identified in TBDs, often presenting as IPF or BMFS.
answer: TERT, TERC and RTEL1
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion of telomere biology disorders notes that monoallelic variants in these disorders are typically identified in TERT, TERC and RTEL1.

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Monoallelic variants in TERT, TERC and RTEL1 are typically identified in TBDs, often presenting as IPF or BMFS.
answer: IPF or BMFS
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders (TBDs) with monoallelic variants in TERT, TERC, and RTEL1 are described in the discussion as typically presenting as IPF or BMFS.

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The PARN gene, which belongs to a highly conserved family of exoribonucleases, acts by shortening mRNA poly(A) tail length through the process of deadenylation, thus regulating gene expression.
answer: a highly conserved family of exoribonucleases
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the PARN gene is described as shortening mRNA poly(A) tail length through deadenylation and belongs to a highly conserved family of exoribonucleases.

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Deep sequencing of TERC RNA 3-prime terminal showed that PARN is required for the removal of post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(A) tails that target nuclear RNAs for degradation, which is required for the 3-prime-end maturation of the TERC.
answer: removal of post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(A) tails
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", deep sequencing of the 3-prime terminal of TERC RNA was used to describe PARN’s role in TERC RNA processing, and PARN is required for removal of post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(A) tails.

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Deep sequencing of TERC RNA 3-prime terminal showed that PARN is required for the removal of post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(A) tails that target nuclear RNAs for degradation, which is required for the 3-prime-end maturation of the TERC.
answer: 3-prime-end maturation of the TERC
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", deep sequencing of the TERC RNA 3-prime terminal showed that PARN is required for removing post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(A) tails that target nuclear RNAs for degradation, and this removal is required for 3-prime-end maturation of the TERC.

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: PARN is among the 20% of genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants, supporting its essential role and the concept of haploinsufficiency in carriers.
answer: "20%"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", PARN is described as being among the genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants, corresponding to "20%".

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: PARN is among the 20% of genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants, supporting its essential role and the concept of haploinsufficiency in carriers.
answer: "haploinsufficiency"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the fact that PARN is among the 20% of genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants supports the concept in carriers of "haploinsufficiency".

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Germline pathogenic variations in PARN are recognised causes of dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6), and the broader spectrum of DC/TBD.
answer: autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6)
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", germline pathogenic variations in PARN are recognized causes of dyskeratosis congenita, as well as one autosomal recessive condition called autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6).

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Monoallelic germline pathogenic variants have been implicated in telomere-related PFBMFT4.
answer: "Monoallelic germline pathogenic variants"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere-related PFBMFT4 has been implicated in "Monoallelic germline pathogenic variants".

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Monoallelic germline pathogenic variants have been implicated in telomere-related PFBMFT4.
answer: "telomere-related PFBMFT4"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", monoallelic germline pathogenic variants have been implicated in "telomere-related PFBMFT4".

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The initial link between PARN and IPF came from the identification of novel monoallelic variants, and subsequent studies have reported monoallelic PARN rare variants in five out of 262 patients with sporadic IPF who underwent whole-exome sequencing, establishing an emerging association that has now been documented in over 65 cases in the literature.1517 However, the complete range of clinical features associated with PARN mutations remains poorly understood due to the limited number of reported cases.
answer: five out of 262
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", subsequent studies described an association between monoallelic PARN variants and sporadic idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), and among patients with sporadic IPF who underwent whole-exome sequencing, the reported number with monoallelic PARN rare variants was five out of 262.

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, our patient harboured a monoallelic missense variant in PARN, c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg), affecting a highly conserved residue within the R3H domain (residues 178–245).
answer: c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg)
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic missense variant in the PARN gene in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, specifically c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg).

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, our patient harboured a monoallelic missense variant in PARN, c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg), affecting a highly conserved residue within the R3H domain (residues 178–245).
answer: R3H domain
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing found that the highly conserved residue affected by the monoallelic missense PARN variant c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg) is located in the R3H domain.

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The variant is predicted to have a deleterious functional effect by four of five in silico missense prediction tools (LRT, Mutation Assessor, MutationTaster and SIFT).
answer: LRT, Mutation Assessor, MutationTaster and SIFT
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg) was assessed by in silico analysis, and the prediction tools that supported a deleterious functional effect for this variant were LRT, Mutation Assessor, MutationTaster and SIFT.

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: PP2—PARN is a gene with a low rate of benign missense variation and in which missense variants are a common mechanism of disease.
answer: "PP2"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors applied ACMG/AMP standards to a monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg), and the supportive criterion cited because PARN has a low rate of benign missense variation and missense variants are a common mechanism of disease was "PP2".

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: PP2—PARN is a gene with a low rate of benign missense variation and in which missense variants are a common mechanism of disease.
answer: "missense variants"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", in the ACMG/AMP criteria discussion of the PARN gene, a common mechanism of disease is described as "missense variants".

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Multiple genes, variable inheritance, incomplete penetrance and somatic genetic rescue can differentially affect organ systems in TBDs.
answer: incomplete penetrance
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion states that several factors can differentially affect organ systems in telomere biology disorders (TBDs); besides multiple genes and variable inheritance, the other factor named in that sentence is incomplete penetrance.

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Multiple genes, variable inheritance, incomplete penetrance and somatic genetic rescue can differentially affect organ systems in TBDs.
answer: somatic genetic rescue
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the process that can differentially affect organ systems in telomere biology disorders (TBDs), along with multiple genes, variable inheritance, and incomplete penetrance, was somatic genetic rescue.

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additionally, environmental and lifestyle factors can variably influence the replicative capacity of different organ systems.
answer: "the replicative capacity"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that environmental and lifestyle factors can variably influence the aspect of different organ systems known as "the replicative capacity".

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additionally, environmental and lifestyle factors can variably influence the replicative capacity of different organ systems.
answer: "environmental and lifestyle factors"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that, in telomere biology disorders, the factors described as affecting the replicative capacity of different organ systems were "environmental and lifestyle factors".

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although monoallelic PARN mutations are more commonly associated with IPF rather than primary haematological manifestations, the presence of cytopenia in our patient raises the possibility of an underlying TBD that may render the bone marrow more susceptible to haematopoietic stress, such as severe vitamin B12 deficiency.
answer: "underlying TBD"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors explain that although monoallelic PARN mutations are more commonly associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rather than primary haematological manifestations, the patient's cytopenia raised the possibility of "underlying TBD"

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Telomere shortening compromises the replicative potential of haematopoietic stem cells, leading to accelerated cellular senescence and an increased risk of BMFS.
answer: **Answer:** BMFS
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that telomere shortening compromises the replicative potential of haematopoietic stem cells, causing accelerated cellular senescence and increasing the risk of BMFS.

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While the cytopenia observed in our patient was most likely attributable to severe vitamin B12 deficiency, the presence of a PARN variant underscores the importance of ongoing clinical and haematological monitoring to assess for any evolving marrow failure phenotype in this genetically predisposed individual.
answer: severe vitamin B12 deficiency
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis," although the patient had cytopenia and a monoallelic PARN variant, the cytopenia was thought to have another cause and was most likely attributable to severe vitamin B12 deficiency.

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cirrhosis in TBD has often been under-recognised; however, emerging evidence suggests it may be more prevalent than previously appreciated.
answer: "under-recognised"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", cirrhosis in telomere biology disorders (TBD) has often been viewed as "under-recognised".

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cirrhosis in TBD has often been under-recognised; however, emerging evidence suggests it may be more prevalent than previously appreciated.
answer: "more prevalent"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that cirrhosis in telomere biology disorders (TBD) has often been under-recognized, and emerging evidence suggests that it is "more prevalent".

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A retrospective analysis from the Aachen Telomere Biology Disease Registry using transient elastography found that 88.8% of adult patients with pathogenic TERC or TERT mutations had at least moderate HF, and 33.3% had cirrhosis.
answer: "88.8%"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a retrospective analysis from the Aachen Telomere Biology Disease Registry used transient elastography to examine adult patients with pathogenic TERC or TERT mutations, and the proportion of these adult patients who had at least moderate hepatic fibrosis (HF) was 88.8%.

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although monoallelic PARN is commonly associated with IPF, its downstream impact on telomerase function may account for HF typically seen with TERT or TERC mutations.
answer: TERT or TERC mutations
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that although monoallelic PARN is commonly associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, its downstream impact on telomerase function may explain hepatic fibrosis, which is typically seen with mutations in TERT or TERC mutations.

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These findings support an expanding clinical spectrum of PARN-associated TBDs and underscore the importance of considering HF as part of its phenotype.
answer: "an expanding clinical spectrum"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors describe a patient with a monoallelic PARN-associated telomere biology disorder who developed both hepatic and pulmonary fibrosis, findings that support "an expanding clinical spectrum"

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These findings support an expanding clinical spectrum of PARN-associated TBDs and underscore the importance of considering HF as part of its phenotype.
answer: "HF"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors describe that the phenotype of PARN-associated TBDs should include "HF".

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Treatment is currently supportive and tailored to symptom severity, organ transplantation needs and risk factor mitigation, although haematopoietic stem cell transplantation can be potentially curative in patients with haematologic manifestations.
answer: haematopoietic stem cell transplantation
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", treatment for suspected telomere biology disorders is described as supportive overall, and in patients with haematologic manifestations, the intervention that can be potentially curative is haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While some preclinical and small clinical studies suggest telomere elongation with androgens like danazol and nandrolone, the long-term effects remain unknown.
answer: "androgens"
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", some preclinical and small clinical studies mentioned as suggesting telomere elongation with danazol and nandrolone indicated that the therapy responsible for telomere elongation was "androgens".

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While some preclinical and small clinical studies suggest telomere elongation with androgens like danazol and nandrolone, the long-term effects remain unknown.
answer: "danazol and nandrolone"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that some preclinical and small clinical studies suggest telomere elongation with certain androgens, specifically "danazol and nandrolone".

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following a systematic evaluation that excluded other common causes, whole-exome sequencing identified the culprit gene, and an extensive literature search enriched our understanding of this rare presentation.
answer: "an extensive literature search"
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after a systematic evaluation excluded other common causes and whole-exome sequencing identified the culprit gene, the authors’ understanding of this rare presentation was enriched by "an extensive literature search".

----- Row 103 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At her 2-week follow-up, her blood counts remained stable, and there were no new signs of clinical deterioration.
answer: stable
statement: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s blood counts at her 2-week follow-up after treatment and supportive care were stable.

----- Row 104 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At her 2-week follow-up, her blood counts remained stable, and there were no new signs of clinical deterioration.
answer: no new signs of clinical deterioration
statement: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", at the 2-week follow-up after supportive treatment, there were no new signs of clinical deterioration.

