----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive fatigue and generalised weakness.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented with progressive fatigue and generalized weakness that had been present for 5-year.
target:  5-year.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented with progressive fatigue and generalized weakness that had been present for

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive fatigue and generalised weakness.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive symptoms described as "fatigue and generalised weakness".
target:  "fatigue and generalised weakness".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive symptoms described as

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Investigations showed pancytopenia, dimorphic anaemia, severe vitamin B12 deficiency, hepatic fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s with a 5-year history of progressive fatigue and generalised weakness underwent investigations that also showed pancytopenia, severe vitamin B12 deficiency, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, and the type of anaemia identified on those investigations was "dimorphic anaemia".
target:  "dimorphic anaemia".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s with a 5-year history of progressive fatigue and generalised weakness underwent investigations that also showed pancytopenia, severe vitamin B12 deficiency, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, and the type of anaemia identified on those investigations was

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite correction of nutritional deficiencies, the constellation of cytopenia, premature greying, osteoporosis, hepatic and pulmonary fibrosis raised suspicion of a genetic disorder.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after nutritional deficiencies were corrected in a woman in her late 20s, the remaining constellation of findings that still raised suspicion of a genetic disorder included cytopenia, osteoporosis, hepatic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, and premature greying.
target:  premature greying.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after nutritional deficiencies were corrected in a woman in her late 20s, the remaining constellation of findings that still raised suspicion of a genetic disorder included cytopenia, osteoporosis, hepatic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, and

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Germline pathogenic variants in PARN have been associated with dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6) and with telomere-related pulmonary fibrosis and/or bone marrow failure 4.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", germline pathogenic variants in PARN have been linked to several disorders, including the condition designated as DKCB6, which is dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6.
target:  dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", germline pathogenic variants in PARN have been linked to several disorders, including the condition designated as DKCB6, which is

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The clinical–genetic correlation in this case supported a diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder (TBD).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s had clinical and genetic findings that were interpreted together as supporting "a telomere biology disorder".
target:  "a telomere biology disorder".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s had clinical and genetic findings that were interpreted together as supporting

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The clinical–genetic correlation in this case supported a diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder (TBD).
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the clinical–genetic correlation supported a diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder abbreviated as "TBD".
target:  "TBD".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the clinical–genetic correlation supported a diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder abbreviated as

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This case highlights the importance of considering TBDs in young adults with unexplained multisystem disease, even when classical mucocutaneous features are absent.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that telomere biology disorders (TBDs) should be considered in young adults with unexplained multisystem disease, even in the absence of classical mucocutaneous features.
target:  classical mucocutaneous features.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that telomere biology disorders (TBDs) should be considered in young adults with unexplained multisystem disease, even in the absence of

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Early recognition is crucial for guiding genetic counselling, surveillance and consideration of bone marrow transplantation in progressive cases.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that early recognition of this progressive telomere biology disorder is important for guiding "genetic counselling"
target:  "genetic counselling"
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that early recognition of this progressive telomere biology disorder is important for guiding

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Early recognition is crucial for guiding genetic counselling, surveillance and consideration of bone marrow transplantation in progressive cases.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", early recognition of a telomere biology disorder is important for guiding genetic counselling and surveillance, and in progressive cases, treatment that may need to be considered is bone marrow transplantation.
target:  bone marrow transplantation.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", early recognition of a telomere biology disorder is important for guiding genetic counselling and surveillance, and in progressive cases, treatment that may need to be considered is

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Telomere biology disorders (TBDs) are rare premature-ageing syndromes caused by Mendelian defects in telomere-related genes that lead to abnormally short or dysfunctional telomeres.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders (TBDs), described in the background as rare premature-ageing syndromes related to abnormal telomeres, are caused by Mendelian defects in telomere-related genes.
target:  Mendelian defects in telomere-related genes.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders (TBDs), described in the background as rare premature-ageing syndromes related to abnormal telomeres, are caused by

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Actively dividing cells, such as bone marrow, skin, mucosa, hair and hepatocytes, are predominantly affected cell groups.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders are described as premature-ageing syndromes affecting certain cell groups, including bone marrow, skin, mucosa, hair, and hepatocytes, which are predominantly Actively dividing cells.
target:  Actively dividing cells.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders are described as premature-ageing syndromes affecting certain cell groups, including bone marrow, skin, mucosa, hair, and hepatocytes, which are predominantly

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Actively dividing cells, such as bone marrow, skin, mucosa, hair and hepatocytes, are predominantly affected cell groups.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders are described as affecting actively dividing cells, with predominantly affected cell groups including bone marrow, skin, mucosa, and hair, as well as hepatocytes.
target:  hepatocytes.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders are described as affecting actively dividing cells, with predominantly affected cell groups including bone marrow, skin, mucosa, and hair, as well as

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: TBD includes numerous clinical phenotypes, with dyskeratosis congenita (DC) being the prototype disease.
fact: In the background of the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders (TBDs) are described as including numerous clinical phenotypes, and the prototype disease is dyskeratosis congenita (DC).
target:  dyskeratosis congenita (DC).
probe: In the background of the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomere biology disorders (TBDs) are described as including numerous clinical phenotypes, and the prototype disease is

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Other entities include Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome, Revesz syndrome and Coats plus syndrome.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the background section lists several telomere biology disorder phenotypes, including Revesz syndrome and Coats plus syndrome, and HH is abbreviated as Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome.
target:  Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the background section lists several telomere biology disorder phenotypes, including Revesz syndrome and Coats plus syndrome, and HH is abbreviated as

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Other entities include Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome, Revesz syndrome and Coats plus syndrome.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the background section lists several other telomere biology disorder phenotypes in addition to dyskeratosis congenita, and among the entities named in the sequence Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome, [blank], and Coats plus syndrome, the middle syndrome is Revesz syndrome.
target:  Revesz syndrome.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the background section lists several other telomere biology disorder phenotypes in addition to dyskeratosis congenita, and among the entities named in the sequence Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome, [blank], and Coats plus syndrome, the middle syndrome is

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We describe a woman in her late 20s with prolonged fatigue and multisystem involvement who was ultimately diagnosed with a TBD.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s who was ultimately diagnosed with a telomere biology disorder after presenting with multisystem involvement had experienced a prolonged symptom before the diagnosis was made: "prolonged fatigue".
target:  "prolonged fatigue".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s who was ultimately diagnosed with a telomere biology disorder after presenting with multisystem involvement had experienced a prolonged symptom before the diagnosis was made:

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the last 3 months, the weakness has worsened to the point of impairing self-care and requiring assistance.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s had progressively worsening generalized weakness over 5 years, and in the last 3 months it worsened further, at which point she was unable to perform self-care.
target:  self-care.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s had progressively worsening generalized weakness over 5 years, and in the last 3 months it worsened further, at which point she was unable to perform

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also reported exertional dyspnoea, intermittent chest discomfort, weight loss and anorexia.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s reported several symptoms during her presentation, including chest discomfort, weight loss, anorexia, and exertional dyspnoea.
target:  exertional dyspnoea.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s reported several symptoms during her presentation, including chest discomfort, weight loss, anorexia, and

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also reported exertional dyspnoea, intermittent chest discomfort, weight loss and anorexia.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive weakness and, over the last 3 months, worsening symptoms including exertional dyspnoea, intermittent chest discomfort, weight loss, and an appetite-related complaint, which was "anorexia".
target:  "anorexia".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s presented with a 5-year history of progressive weakness and, over the last 3 months, worsening symptoms including exertional dyspnoea, intermittent chest discomfort, weight loss, and an appetite-related complaint, which was

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notable findings included pallor, icterus, premature greying of hair, knuckle hyperpigmentation and a bald tongue with atrophy of lingual papillae.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s was examined after a 5-year history of progressive weakness and other multisystem findings, and the abnormality of the hair noted on examination was premature greying of hair.
target:  premature greying of hair.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s was examined after a 5-year history of progressive weakness and other multisystem findings, and the abnormality of the hair noted on examination was

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Abdominal examination showed hepatomegaly (5 cm below the right costal margin, span 18 cm).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", abdominal examination in the woman in her late 20s who presented with a 5-year history of progressive weakness and multisystem findings revealed hepatomegaly.
target:  hepatomegaly.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", abdominal examination in the woman in her late 20s who presented with a 5-year history of progressive weakness and multisystem findings revealed

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Abdominal examination showed hepatomegaly (5 cm below the right costal margin, span 18 cm).
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during abdominal examination as part of her evaluation for progressive weakness and multisystem disease, a woman in her late 20s had a measured liver span of 18 cm.
target:  18 cm.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during abdominal examination as part of her evaluation for progressive weakness and multisystem disease, a woman in her late 20s had a measured liver span of

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Respiratory examination revealed reduced breath sounds in the bilateral infra-scapular regions.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s underwent respiratory examination as part of her evaluation for progressive weakness and exertional dyspnoea, and the abnormal finding noted in the bilateral infra-scapular regions was reduced breath sounds.
target:  reduced breath sounds.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s underwent respiratory examination as part of her evaluation for progressive weakness and exertional dyspnoea, and the abnormal finding noted in the bilateral infra-scapular regions was

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Peripheral smear demonstrated dimorphic erythrocytes, basophilic stippling, Cabot rings and hypersegmented neutrophils—suggestive of ineffective erythropoiesis.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia had an initial peripheral smear showing dimorphic erythrocytes, basophilic stippling, Cabot rings, and findings suggestive of ineffective erythropoiesis, namely hypersegmented neutrophils.
target:  hypersegmented neutrophils.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia had an initial peripheral smear showing dimorphic erythrocytes, basophilic stippling, Cabot rings, and findings suggestive of ineffective erythropoiesis, namely

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Iron studies revealed elevated serum iron and ferritin, consistent with ineffective erythropoiesis (table 1).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s had initial laboratory testing during evaluation of pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, and the iron studies were consistent with ineffective erythropoiesis, with elevated serum iron and ferritin.
target:  elevated serum iron and ferritin.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s had initial laboratory testing during evaluation of pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, and the iron studies were consistent with ineffective erythropoiesis, with

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Iron studies revealed elevated serum iron and ferritin, consistent with ineffective erythropoiesis (table 1).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s initial iron studies showed elevated serum iron and ferritin during the workup for pancytopenia and dimorphic anemia, which were considered consistent with "ineffective erythropoiesis".
target:  "ineffective erythropoiesis".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s initial iron studies showed elevated serum iron and ferritin during the workup for pancytopenia and dimorphic anemia, which were considered consistent with

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bone marrow examination revealed trilineage haematopoiesis with erythroid hyperplasia and increased iron stores, without evidence of malignancy, dysplasia or infiltrative disease; cytogenetic analysis was also normal.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the bone marrow examination performed during the workup of pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12/folate deficiency showed trilineage haematopoiesis.
target:  trilineage haematopoiesis.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the bone marrow examination performed during the workup of pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12/folate deficiency showed

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Markers of haemolysis included elevated lactate dehydrogenase and indirect hyperbilirubinaemia. The direct antiglobulin test (DAT) was positive for IgG (2+),
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the strength of the direct antiglobulin test (DAT) positivity for IgG was "2+".
target:  "2+".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the strength of the direct antiglobulin test (DAT) positivity for IgG was

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite this, the low reticulocyte response and marrow findings were more consistent with ineffective erythropoiesis rather than peripheral immune-mediated destruction.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient had hemolysis markers and a positive direct antiglobulin test, but her low reticulocyte response and bone marrow findings were considered less consistent with "peripheral immune-mediated destruction".
target:  "peripheral immune-mediated destruction".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient had hemolysis markers and a positive direct antiglobulin test, but her low reticulocyte response and bone marrow findings were considered less consistent with

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To evaluate gastrointestinal malabsorption, an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, which appeared macroscopically normal.
fact: During the workup for gastrointestinal malabsorption in this woman with pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, the procedure performed was "an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy".
target:  "an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy".
probe: During the workup for gastrointestinal malabsorption in this woman with pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, the procedure performed was

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To evaluate gastrointestinal malabsorption, an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, which appeared macroscopically normal.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy performed during the evaluation for gastrointestinal malabsorption in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency was "macroscopically normal".
target:  "macroscopically normal".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy performed during the evaluation for gastrointestinal malabsorption in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia and severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency was

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Duodenal biopsy showed mild chronic gastritis with reduced parietal cells, possibly contributing to B12 malabsorption via impaired intrinsic factor production.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a duodenal biopsy performed during evaluation for possible vitamin B12 malabsorption showed reduced parietal cells and mild chronic gastritis.
target:  mild chronic gastritis.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a duodenal biopsy performed during evaluation for possible vitamin B12 malabsorption showed reduced parietal cells and

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Duodenal biopsy showed mild chronic gastritis with reduced parietal cells, possibly contributing to B12 malabsorption via impaired intrinsic factor production.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a duodenal biopsy showed mild chronic gastritis with reduced parietal cells, which were thought to contribute to vitamin B12 malabsorption through impairment of "intrinsic factor production".
target:  "intrinsic factor production".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a duodenal biopsy showed mild chronic gastritis with reduced parietal cells, which were thought to contribute to vitamin B12 malabsorption through impairment of

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, the severity of clinical findings appeared disproportionate to nutritional deficiency alone.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, and other multisystem findings, the feature that appeared disproportionate to nutritional deficiency alone was severity of clinical findings.
target:  severity of clinical findings.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, severe vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, and other multisystem findings, the feature that appeared disproportionate to nutritional deficiency alone was

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Transient elastography showed grade II hepatic steatosis (controlled attenuation parameter: 295 dB/m) and cirrhosis (liver stiffness: 18.1 kPa).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", transient elastography performed during the hepatic workup of a woman in her late 20s with hepatosplenomegaly reported a controlled attenuation parameter for her grade II hepatic steatosis of 295 dB/m.
target:  295 dB/m.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", transient elastography performed during the hepatic workup of a woman in her late 20s with hepatosplenomegaly reported a controlled attenuation parameter for her grade II hepatic steatosis of

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Transient elastography showed grade II hepatic steatosis (controlled attenuation parameter: 295 dB/m) and cirrhosis (liver stiffness: 18.1 kPa).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient underwent transient elastography during evaluation of hepatic dysfunction, and the study showed grade II hepatic steatosis and cirrhosis with a liver stiffness value of 18.1 kPa.
target:  18.1 kPa.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient underwent transient elastography during evaluation of hepatic dysfunction, and the study showed grade II hepatic steatosis and cirrhosis with a liver stiffness value of

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, autoimmune serologies, including antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies, were negative.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during evaluation of hepatic dysfunction, the patient's autoimmune serologic testing included "antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies".
target:  "antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during evaluation of hepatic dysfunction, the patient's autoimmune serologic testing included

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, autoimmune serologies, including antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies, were negative.
fact: During evaluation of hepatic dysfunction after ultrasound and transient elastography showed hepatosplenomegaly, grade II hepatic steatosis, and cirrhosis, the patient's autoimmune serologies, including antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies, were "negative".
target:  "negative".
probe: During evaluation of hepatic dysfunction after ultrasound and transient elastography showed hepatosplenomegaly, grade II hepatic steatosis, and cirrhosis, the patient's autoimmune serologies, including antinuclear and autoimmune hepatitis antibodies, were

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Infectious workup for viral hepatitis, HIV, Cytomegalovirus and scrub typhus was largely unremarkable except for positive Epstein-Barr virus IgG (table 2).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient's infectious workup during evaluation of hepatic dysfunction was largely unremarkable despite negative testing for viral hepatitis, HIV, Cytomegalovirus, and scrub typhus, with positive Epstein-Barr virus IgG.
target:  positive Epstein-Barr virus IgG.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient's infectious workup during evaluation of hepatic dysfunction was largely unremarkable despite negative testing for viral hepatitis, HIV, Cytomegalovirus, and scrub typhus, with

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Infectious workup for viral hepatitis, HIV, Cytomegalovirus and scrub typhus was largely unremarkable except for positive Epstein-Barr virus IgG (table 2).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the infectious workup during evaluation of her hepatic dysfunction, including testing for viral hepatitis, HIV, Cytomegalovirus and scrub typhus, was largely unremarkable.
target:  largely unremarkable.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the infectious workup during evaluation of her hepatic dysfunction, including testing for viral hepatitis, HIV, Cytomegalovirus and scrub typhus, was

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It showed inhomogeneous ¹⁸F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the axial and appendicular bone marrow.
fact: On positron emission tomography–CT performed during the evaluation for occult infiltrative or inflammatory pathology in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia and multisystem disease, the tracer that showed inhomogeneous uptake in the axial and appendicular bone marrow was "¹⁸F-fluorodeoxyglucose"
target:  "¹⁸F-fluorodeoxyglucose"
probe: On positron emission tomography–CT performed during the evaluation for occult infiltrative or inflammatory pathology in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia and multisystem disease, the tracer that showed inhomogeneous uptake in the axial and appendicular bone marrow was

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Diffuse ground-glass haziness with multiple fibrotic and subpleural atelectatic changes was noted in both lung fields, along with hepatosplenomegaly and ascites, but without evidence of overt malignancy or granulomatous disease (figures 1 and 2).
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a positron emission tomography–CT scan performed during the evaluation of this woman with pancytopenia, hepatosplenomegaly, and lung abnormalities showed pulmonary imaging finding in both lung fields of "Diffuse ground-glass haziness".
target:  "Diffuse ground-glass haziness".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a positron emission tomography–CT scan performed during the evaluation of this woman with pancytopenia, hepatosplenomegaly, and lung abnormalities showed pulmonary imaging finding in both lung fields of

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additional findings included secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances (hypocalcaemia, hypokalaemia), vitamin D deficiency and osteoporosis confirmed on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, explaining her recurrent bone pain and fractures (table 3).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s had additional findings of secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances, vitamin D deficiency, and recurrent bone pain and fractures, and her osteoporosis was confirmed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry.
target:  dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s had additional findings of secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances, vitamin D deficiency, and recurrent bone pain and fractures, and her osteoporosis was confirmed by

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additional findings included secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances (hypocalcaemia, hypokalaemia), vitamin D deficiency and osteoporosis confirmed on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, explaining her recurrent bone pain and fractures (table 3).
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s additional findings included secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances, and osteoporosis confirmed on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, which helped explain her recurrent bone pain and fractures, along with vitamin D deficiency.
target:  vitamin D deficiency.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s additional findings included secondary hyperparathyroidism, electrolyte disturbances, and osteoporosis confirmed on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, which helped explain her recurrent bone pain and fractures, along with

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Electromyography and nerve conduction studies revealed asymmetric sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy with chronic neurogenic changes in proximal and distal muscle groups.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during evaluation of her multisystem illness, including weakness and neuropathic findings, electromyography and nerve conduction studies revealed asymmetric sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy.
target:  asymmetric sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during evaluation of her multisystem illness, including weakness and neuropathic findings, electromyography and nerve conduction studies revealed

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Electromyography and nerve conduction studies revealed asymmetric sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy with chronic neurogenic changes in proximal and distal muscle groups.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", electromyography and nerve conduction studies performed during the evaluation of her asymmetric sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy found abnormalities in the proximal and distal muscle groups consistent with chronic neurogenic changes.
target:  chronic neurogenic changes.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", electromyography and nerve conduction studies performed during the evaluation of her asymmetric sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy found abnormalities in the proximal and distal muscle groups consistent with

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given the constellation of findings—cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis and neuropathy—a syndromic or genetic aetiology was suspected.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s had a constellation of cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis, and neuropathy during her evaluation, and the suspected cause was a syndromic or genetic aetiology.
target:  a syndromic or genetic aetiology.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a woman in her late 20s had a constellation of cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis, and neuropathy during her evaluation, and the suspected cause was

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given the constellation of findings—cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis and neuropathy—a syndromic or genetic aetiology was suspected.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinicians suspected a syndromic or genetic aetiology because of a constellation of findings that included cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, osteoporosis and neuropathy, along with premature greying.
target:  premature greying.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinicians suspected a syndromic or genetic aetiology because of a constellation of findings that included cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, osteoporosis and neuropathy, along with

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic missense variant in the PARN gene (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg, exon 8).
fact: After evaluation for multisystem disease including cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis, and neuropathy, clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic missense variant in the PARN gene.
target:  PARN gene.
probe: After evaluation for multisystem disease including cytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis, and neuropathy, clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic missense variant in the

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The identified missense variant alters a highly conserved residue and is predicted to be damaging to the protein function.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg) in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, which altered a highly conserved residue.
target:  a highly conserved residue.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg) in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, which altered

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, the role of the variant in the disease could not be ascertained; therefore, it has been labelled as ‘Variant of Uncertain Significance’.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", because the role of the monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg, exon 8) identified by clinical exome sequencing could not be ascertained, it was classified as "Variant of Uncertain Significance".
target:  "Variant of Uncertain Significance".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", because the role of the monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg, exon 8) identified by clinical exome sequencing could not be ascertained, it was classified as

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Severe vitamin B12 deficiency was confirmed early and accounted for several features, supported by bone marrow evidence of ineffective erythropoiesis.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the deficiency confirmed early in the patient’s evaluation and considered to account for several of her findings, supported by bone marrow evidence of ineffective erythropoiesis, was "Severe vitamin B12 deficiency"
target:  "Severe vitamin B12 deficiency"
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the deficiency confirmed early in the patient’s evaluation and considered to account for several of her findings, supported by bone marrow evidence of ineffective erythropoiesis, was

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Severe vitamin B12 deficiency was confirmed early and accounted for several features, supported by bone marrow evidence of ineffective erythropoiesis.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", severe vitamin B12 deficiency was confirmed early in the workup of a woman with pancytopenia, and the bone marrow findings supported "ineffective erythropoiesis".
target:  "ineffective erythropoiesis".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", severe vitamin B12 deficiency was confirmed early in the workup of a woman with pancytopenia, and the bone marrow findings supported

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An immune-mediated process was briefly considered due to a positive DAT and elevated inflammatory markers.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during evaluation after presenting with pancytopenia, fatigue, and multisystem findings, the laboratory test result that briefly raised the possibility of an immune-mediated process, along with elevated inflammatory markers, was "a positive DAT".
target:  "a positive DAT".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", during evaluation after presenting with pancytopenia, fatigue, and multisystem findings, the laboratory test result that briefly raised the possibility of an immune-mediated process, along with elevated inflammatory markers, was

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Yet, the absence of haemolysis, negative autoimmune serologies and lack of systemic features argued against autoimmune cytopenia or connective tissue disease.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the finding related to red blood cell destruction that argued against autoimmune cytopenia or connective tissue disease in this woman, despite a positive direct antiglobulin test and elevated inflammatory markers, was absence of haemolysis.
target:  absence of haemolysis.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the finding related to red blood cell destruction that argued against autoimmune cytopenia or connective tissue disease in this woman, despite a positive direct antiglobulin test and elevated inflammatory markers, was

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Yet, the absence of haemolysis, negative autoimmune serologies and lack of systemic features argued against autoimmune cytopenia or connective tissue disease.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient was being evaluated for pancytopenia and possible autoimmune disease, and a laboratory finding that contributed to arguing against autoimmune cytopenia or connective tissue disease despite a positive direct antiglobulin test earlier was negative autoimmune serologies.
target:  negative autoimmune serologies.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient was being evaluated for pancytopenia and possible autoimmune disease, and a laboratory finding that contributed to arguing against autoimmune cytopenia or connective tissue disease despite a positive direct antiglobulin test earlier was

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The unique constellation of premature ageing features, persistent cytopenia and fibrotic involvement of the lungs and liver in a young adult shifted clinical suspicion toward a cryptic inherited disorder.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the young adult's premature ageing features, persistent cytopenia, and fibrotic involvement of the lungs and liver shifted the clinical suspicion toward a "cryptic inherited disorder".
target:  "cryptic inherited disorder".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the young adult's premature ageing features, persistent cytopenia, and fibrotic involvement of the lungs and liver shifted the clinical suspicion toward a

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the absence of a family history initially argued against hereditary syndrome, a de novo mutation remained a possibility.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the clinicians considered a hereditary syndrome because of the patient’s multisystem findings, but the feature in her history that initially argued against a hereditary syndrome, even though a de novo mutation was still considered possible, was "absence of a family history".
target:  "absence of a family history".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the clinicians considered a hereditary syndrome because of the patient’s multisystem findings, but the feature in her history that initially argued against a hereditary syndrome, even though a de novo mutation was still considered possible, was

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the absence of a family history initially argued against hereditary syndrome, a de novo mutation remained a possibility.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s lack of a family history initially argued against an inherited disorder, but in that setting the genetic possibility still considered was "a de novo mutation".
target:  "a de novo mutation".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s lack of a family history initially argued against an inherited disorder, but in that setting the genetic possibility still considered was

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This led to the hypothesis of a TBD which can mimic acquired conditions and present with variable penetrance.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after persistent cytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, lung fibrosis, premature greying, osteoporosis and neuropathy in a woman in her late 20s failed to be explained by nutritional deficiency or autoimmune/infectious disease alone, a disorder was hypothesised to account for the multisystem presentation as "a TBD".
target:  "a TBD".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after persistent cytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, lung fibrosis, premature greying, osteoporosis and neuropathy in a woman in her late 20s failed to be explained by nutritional deficiency or autoimmune/infectious disease alone, a disorder was hypothesised to account for the multisystem presentation as

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Though rare, it may lack the classical mucocutaneous triad of DC and instead manifest subtly with marrow failure, organ fibrosis and features of accelerated ageing.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", this telomere biology disorder can be subtle and may not show the expected mucocutaneous findings despite the presence of marrow failure, organ fibrosis, and features of accelerated ageing, the classical mucocutaneous triad of DC.
target:  the classical mucocutaneous triad of DC.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", this telomere biology disorder can be subtle and may not show the expected mucocutaneous findings despite the presence of marrow failure, organ fibrosis, and features of accelerated ageing,

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This was substantiated by genetic analysis, which identified a pathogenic monoallelic variant in the PARN gene, providing a unifying explanation for the constellation of
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", genetic analysis was performed after a young woman presented with pancytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis, neuropathy, and pulmonary and hepatic fibrosis, and a pathogenic monoallelic variant identified as the unifying explanation for her findings was in the PARN gene.
target:  PARN gene.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", genetic analysis was performed after a young woman presented with pancytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, premature greying, osteoporosis, neuropathy, and pulmonary and hepatic fibrosis, and a pathogenic monoallelic variant identified as the unifying explanation for her findings was in the

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient was treated with intravenous cyanocobalamin 1000 µg daily for 5 days, then weekly for 4 weeks, followed by monthly maintenance to correct severe deficiency.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the medication used to correct the patient’s severe deficiency during treatment, given intravenously first daily for 5 days, then weekly for 4 weeks, followed by monthly maintenance, was intravenous cyanocobalamin.
target:  intravenous cyanocobalamin.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the medication used to correct the patient’s severe deficiency during treatment, given intravenously first daily for 5 days, then weekly for 4 weeks, followed by monthly maintenance, was

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Supportive treatment included whole blood transfusions for symptomatic anaemia, oral folic acid (1 mg daily) and vitamin D (60 000 IU weekly) with elemental calcium (1000 mg daily) for osteoporosis.
fact: The supportive treatment given for the patient's symptomatic anaemia during management, in the same plan that also included oral folic acid and vitamin D with elemental calcium for osteoporosis, was "whole blood transfusions".
target:  "whole blood transfusions".
probe: The supportive treatment given for the patient's symptomatic anaemia during management, in the same plan that also included oral folic acid and vitamin D with elemental calcium for osteoporosis, was

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also underwent physiotherapy, and her family received genetic counselling following diagnosis of a TBD.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after the patient was diagnosed with a telomere biology disorder and received treatment for her deficiencies and osteoporosis, additional supportive therapy as part of her management included physiotherapy.
target:  physiotherapy.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after the patient was diagnosed with a telomere biology disorder and received treatment for her deficiencies and osteoporosis, additional supportive therapy as part of her management included

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also underwent physiotherapy, and her family received genetic counselling following diagnosis of a TBD.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after the diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder (TBD), the patient’s family received genetic counselling.
target:  genetic counselling.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after the diagnosis of a telomere biology disorder (TBD), the patient’s family received

----- Row 106 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During the 2-week follow-up, her blood counts were stable, fatigue improved and no new clinical concerns were reported.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", by the 2-week follow-up after symptomatic improvement and stable blood counts were noted, the symptom that had improved was fatigue improved.
target:  fatigue improved.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", by the 2-week follow-up after symptomatic improvement and stable blood counts were noted, the symptom that had improved was

----- Row 109 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Telomeres, which are repetitive DNA sequences capping chromosome ends, preserve genomic integrity by shielding chromosomes from degradation.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences capping chromosome ends and that, by shielding chromosomes from degradation, they preserve genomic integrity.
target:  genomic integrity.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences capping chromosome ends and that, by shielding chromosomes from degradation, they preserve

----- Row 110 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Telomeres, which are repetitive DNA sequences capping chromosome ends, preserve genomic integrity by shielding chromosomes from degradation.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomeres in the discussion are described as structures that cap chromosome ends and help preserve genomic integrity by shielding chromosomes from degradation, and they are repetitive DNA sequences.
target:  repetitive DNA sequences.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomeres in the discussion are described as structures that cap chromosome ends and help preserve genomic integrity by shielding chromosomes from degradation, and they are

----- Row 111 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With each cell division, telomeres shorten, eventually reaching a critical length that triggers cellular senescence or apoptosis.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomeres eventually reach critical length.
target:  critical length.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", telomeres eventually reach

----- Row 112 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With each cell division, telomeres shorten, eventually reaching a critical length that triggers cellular senescence or apoptosis.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that with each cell division, telomeres shorten until they reach a critical length, at which point apoptosis is triggered, leading to cellular senescence.
target:  cellular senescence.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that with each cell division, telomeres shorten until they reach a critical length, at which point apoptosis is triggered, leading to

----- Row 114 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under physiological conditions, the enzyme telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein complex that includes telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) and telomerase RNA component (TERC), maintains telomere length through elongation.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the telomerase component abbreviated as TERC is "telomerase RNA component".
target:  "telomerase RNA component".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the telomerase component abbreviated as TERC is

----- Row 115 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, pathogenic variants in genes encoding components of the telomerase complex impair this enzyme’s function, leading to premature telomere attrition, resulting in a group of inherited conditions called TBD.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that pathogenic variants in genes encoding components of the telomerase complex impair telomerase function, leading to a group of inherited telomere biology disorders characterized by premature telomere attrition.
target:  premature telomere attrition.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that pathogenic variants in genes encoding components of the telomerase complex impair telomerase function, leading to a group of inherited telomere biology disorders characterized by

----- Row 117 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: X-linked recessive pathogenic variants in DKC1 first established the link between DC and markedly short telomeres, making DC the prototypical TBD.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", X-linked recessive pathogenic variants in DKC1 first established a link between dyskeratosis congenita (DC) and markedly short telomeres.
target:  markedly short telomeres.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", X-linked recessive pathogenic variants in DKC1 first established a link between dyskeratosis congenita (DC) and

----- Row 120 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Other recognised manifestations include idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), HF and an increased risk of haematological and solid malignancies.
fact: The discussion of telomere biology disorders notes several recognised manifestations beyond the mucocutaneous triad, and the recognised pulmonary manifestation in this disorder is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
target:  idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
probe: The discussion of telomere biology disorders notes several recognised manifestations beyond the mucocutaneous triad, and the recognised pulmonary manifestation in this disorder is

----- Row 121 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Other recognised manifestations include idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), HF and an increased risk of haematological and solid malignancies.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion of telomere biology disorders notes several recognised manifestations, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and hepatic fibrosis, and also says that this disorder has an increased risk of "haematological and solid malignancies".
target:  "haematological and solid malignancies".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion of telomere biology disorders notes several recognised manifestations, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and hepatic fibrosis, and also says that this disorder has an increased risk of

----- Row 124 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: TBDs may present with isolated mucocutaneous, organ-specific or haematological involvement and may manifest in adulthood without the classical DC triad.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that telomere biology disorders (TBDs) may present in adulthood without the classical dyskeratosis congenita triad and, besides organ-specific or haematological involvement, may also present with isolated mucocutaneous.
target:  isolated mucocutaneous.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that telomere biology disorders (TBDs) may present in adulthood without the classical dyskeratosis congenita triad and, besides organ-specific or haematological involvement, may also present with

----- Row 126 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Typically, the inherited defect is masked by conditions such as aplastic anaemia, BMFS, IPF, or HF and gastrointestinal diseases.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that inherited telomere defects may be masked by several clinical conditions, including the haematological condition aplastic anaemia.
target:  aplastic anaemia.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that inherited telomere defects may be masked by several clinical conditions, including the haematological condition

----- Row 128 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Without the classical triad and due to delayed clinical presentation, these patients are frequently misdiagnosed, especially when not seen in specialised centres.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that telomere biology disorders may present in adulthood without the classical dyskeratosis congenita triad and that, in addition to this absence, the factor contributing to these patients being frequently misdiagnosed, especially outside specialised centres, is "delayed clinical presentation".
target:  "delayed clinical presentation".
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that telomere biology disorders may present in adulthood without the classical dyskeratosis congenita triad and that, in addition to this absence, the factor contributing to these patients being frequently misdiagnosed, especially outside specialised centres, is

----- Row 130 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Monoallelic variants in TERT, TERC and RTEL1 are typically identified in TBDs, often presenting as IPF or BMFS.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion of telomere biology disorders notes that monoallelic variants in these disorders are typically identified in TERT, TERC and RTEL1.
target:  TERT, TERC and RTEL1.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion of telomere biology disorders notes that monoallelic variants in these disorders are typically identified in

----- Row 132 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The PARN gene, which belongs to a highly conserved family of exoribonucleases, acts by shortening mRNA poly(A) tail length through the process of deadenylation, thus regulating gene expression.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the PARN gene is described as a highly conserved exoribonuclease involved in a process called deadenylation.
target:  deadenylation.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the PARN gene is described as a highly conserved exoribonuclease involved in a process called

----- Row 133 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The PARN gene, which belongs to a highly conserved family of exoribonucleases, acts by shortening mRNA poly(A) tail length through the process of deadenylation, thus regulating gene expression.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the PARN gene is described as shortening mRNA poly(A) tail length through deadenylation and belongs to a highly conserved family of exoribonucleases.
target:  a highly conserved family of exoribonucleases.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the PARN gene is described as shortening mRNA poly(A) tail length through deadenylation and belongs to

----- Row 134 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Deep sequencing of TERC RNA 3-prime terminal showed that PARN is required for the removal of post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(A) tails that target nuclear RNAs for degradation, which is required for the 3-prime-end maturation of the TERC.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", deep sequencing of the 3-prime terminal of TERC RNA was used to describe PARN’s role in TERC RNA processing, and PARN is required for removal of post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(A) tails.
target:  removal of post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(A) tails.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", deep sequencing of the 3-prime terminal of TERC RNA was used to describe PARN’s role in TERC RNA processing, and PARN is required for

----- Row 136 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: PARN is among the 20% of genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants, supporting its essential role and the concept of haploinsufficiency in carriers.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", PARN is described as being among the genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants, corresponding to "20%".
target:  "20%".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", PARN is described as being among the genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants, corresponding to

----- Row 137 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: PARN is among the 20% of genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants, supporting its essential role and the concept of haploinsufficiency in carriers.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the fact that PARN is among the 20% of genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants supports the concept in carriers of "haploinsufficiency".
target:  "haploinsufficiency".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the fact that PARN is among the 20% of genes least tolerant to rare, disruptive variants supports the concept in carriers of

----- Row 139 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Germline pathogenic variations in PARN are recognised causes of dyskeratosis congenita, autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6), and the broader spectrum of DC/TBD.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", germline pathogenic variations in PARN are recognized causes of dyskeratosis congenita, as well as one autosomal recessive condition called autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6).
target:  autosomal recessive 6 (DKCB6).
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", germline pathogenic variations in PARN are recognized causes of dyskeratosis congenita, as well as one autosomal recessive condition called

----- Row 141 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Monoallelic germline pathogenic variants have been implicated in telomere-related PFBMFT4.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", monoallelic germline pathogenic variants have been implicated in "telomere-related PFBMFT4".
target:  "telomere-related PFBMFT4".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", monoallelic germline pathogenic variants have been implicated in

----- Row 142 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The initial link between PARN and IPF came from the identification of novel monoallelic variants, and subsequent studies have reported monoallelic PARN rare variants in five out of 262 patients with sporadic IPF who underwent whole-exome sequencing, establishing an emerging association that has now been documented in over 65 cases in the literature.1517 However, the complete range of clinical features associated with PARN mutations remains poorly understood due to the limited number of reported cases.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", subsequent studies described an association between monoallelic PARN variants and sporadic idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), and among patients with sporadic IPF who underwent whole-exome sequencing, the reported number with monoallelic PARN rare variants was five out of 262.
target:  five out of 262.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", subsequent studies described an association between monoallelic PARN variants and sporadic idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), and among patients with sporadic IPF who underwent whole-exome sequencing, the reported number with monoallelic PARN rare variants was

----- Row 143 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The initial link between PARN and IPF came from the identification of novel monoallelic variants, and subsequent studies have reported monoallelic PARN rare variants in five out of 262 patients with sporadic IPF who underwent whole-exome sequencing, establishing an emerging association that has now been documented in over 65 cases in the literature.1517 However, the complete range of clinical features associated with PARN mutations remains poorly understood due to the limited number of reported cases.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that the emerging association between PARN and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis has now been documented in the literature in over 65 cases.
target:  over 65 cases.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that the emerging association between PARN and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis has now been documented in the literature in

----- Row 144 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, our patient harboured a monoallelic missense variant in PARN, c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg), affecting a highly conserved residue within the R3H domain (residues 178–245).
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic missense variant in the PARN gene in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, specifically c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg).
target:  c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg).
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing identified a monoallelic missense variant in the PARN gene in a woman in her late 20s with pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis, and pulmonary fibrosis, specifically

----- Row 145 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, our patient harboured a monoallelic missense variant in PARN, c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg), affecting a highly conserved residue within the R3H domain (residues 178–245).
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing found that the highly conserved residue affected by the monoallelic missense PARN variant c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg) is located in the R3H domain.
target:  R3H domain.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", clinical exome sequencing found that the highly conserved residue affected by the monoallelic missense PARN variant c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg) is located in the

----- Row 146 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The variant is predicted to have a deleterious functional effect by four of five in silico missense prediction tools (LRT, Mutation Assessor, MutationTaster and SIFT).
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg) was assessed by in silico analysis, and the prediction tools that supported a deleterious functional effect for this variant were LRT, Mutation Assessor, MutationTaster and SIFT.
target:  LRT, Mutation Assessor, MutationTaster and SIFT.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the patient’s monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg) was assessed by in silico analysis, and the prediction tools that supported a deleterious functional effect for this variant were

----- Row 147 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The variant is predicted to have a deleterious functional effect by four of five in silico missense prediction tools (LRT, Mutation Assessor, MutationTaster and SIFT).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", in the discussion of the monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg), the number of in silico missense prediction tools said to predict a deleterious functional effect was four of five.
target:  four of five.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", in the discussion of the monoallelic PARN missense variant (c.613T>C; p.Cys205Arg), the number of in silico missense prediction tools said to predict a deleterious functional effect was

----- Row 148 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When evaluated using the ACMG/AMP standards for variant classification, this variant meets several supportive criteria: PM1—the substitution occurs within a critical and well-established functional domain (R3H domain) with no known benign variation.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the PARN missense variant c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg) was evaluated using ACMG/AMP standards for variant classification, and the substitution occurred within the R3H domain.
target:  R3H domain.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the PARN missense variant c.613T>C (p.Cys205Arg) was evaluated using ACMG/AMP standards for variant classification, and the substitution occurred within the

----- Row 150 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: PP2—PARN is a gene with a low rate of benign missense variation and in which missense variants are a common mechanism of disease.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", in the ACMG/AMP criteria discussion of the PARN gene, a common mechanism of disease is described as "missense variants".
target:  "missense variants".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", in the ACMG/AMP criteria discussion of the PARN gene, a common mechanism of disease is described as

----- Row 151 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Multiple genes, variable inheritance, incomplete penetrance and somatic genetic rescue can differentially affect organ systems in TBDs.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion states that several factors can differentially affect organ systems in telomere biology disorders (TBDs); besides multiple genes and variable inheritance, the other factor named in that sentence is incomplete penetrance.
target:  incomplete penetrance.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion states that several factors can differentially affect organ systems in telomere biology disorders (TBDs); besides multiple genes and variable inheritance, the other factor named in that sentence is

----- Row 152 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Multiple genes, variable inheritance, incomplete penetrance and somatic genetic rescue can differentially affect organ systems in TBDs.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the process that can differentially affect organ systems in telomere biology disorders (TBDs), along with multiple genes, variable inheritance, and incomplete penetrance, was somatic genetic rescue.
target:  somatic genetic rescue.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the process that can differentially affect organ systems in telomere biology disorders (TBDs), along with multiple genes, variable inheritance, and incomplete penetrance, was

----- Row 153 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additionally, environmental and lifestyle factors can variably influence the replicative capacity of different organ systems.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that environmental and lifestyle factors can variably influence the aspect of different organ systems known as "the replicative capacity".
target:  "the replicative capacity".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that environmental and lifestyle factors can variably influence the aspect of different organ systems known as

----- Row 154 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additionally, environmental and lifestyle factors can variably influence the replicative capacity of different organ systems.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that, in telomere biology disorders, the factors described as affecting the replicative capacity of different organ systems were "environmental and lifestyle factors".
target:  "environmental and lifestyle factors".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that, in telomere biology disorders, the factors described as affecting the replicative capacity of different organ systems were

----- Row 156 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although monoallelic PARN mutations are more commonly associated with IPF rather than primary haematological manifestations, the presence of cytopenia in our patient raises the possibility of an underlying TBD that may render the bone marrow more susceptible to haematopoietic stress, such as severe vitamin B12 deficiency.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors explain that although monoallelic PARN mutations are more commonly associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rather than primary haematological manifestations, the patient's cytopenia raised the possibility of "underlying TBD"
target:  "underlying TBD"
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors explain that although monoallelic PARN mutations are more commonly associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rather than primary haematological manifestations, the patient's cytopenia raised the possibility of

----- Row 157 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Telomere shortening compromises the replicative potential of haematopoietic stem cells, leading to accelerated cellular senescence and an increased risk of BMFS.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion states that telomere shortening affects haematopoietic stem cells, leading to accelerated cellular senescence and an increased risk of bone marrow failure syndrome (BMFS) through compromised replicative potential.
target:  replicative potential.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion states that telomere shortening affects haematopoietic stem cells, leading to accelerated cellular senescence and an increased risk of bone marrow failure syndrome (BMFS) through compromised

----- Row 160 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While the cytopenia observed in our patient was most likely attributable to severe vitamin B12 deficiency, the presence of a PARN variant underscores the importance of ongoing clinical and haematological monitoring to assess for any evolving marrow failure phenotype in this genetically predisposed individual.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the presence of a PARN variant underscored the importance of ongoing clinical and haematological monitoring.
target:  ongoing clinical and haematological monitoring.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the presence of a PARN variant underscored the importance of

----- Row 161 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cirrhosis in TBD has often been under-recognised; however, emerging evidence suggests it may be more prevalent than previously appreciated.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", cirrhosis in telomere biology disorders (TBD) has often been viewed as "under-recognised".
target:  "under-recognised".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", cirrhosis in telomere biology disorders (TBD) has often been viewed as

----- Row 162 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cirrhosis in TBD has often been under-recognised; however, emerging evidence suggests it may be more prevalent than previously appreciated.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that cirrhosis in telomere biology disorders (TBD) has often been under-recognized, and emerging evidence suggests that it is "more prevalent".
target:  "more prevalent".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors note that cirrhosis in telomere biology disorders (TBD) has often been under-recognized, and emerging evidence suggests that it is

----- Row 164 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A retrospective analysis from the Aachen Telomere Biology Disease Registry using transient elastography found that 88.8% of adult patients with pathogenic TERC or TERT mutations had at least moderate HF, and 33.3% had cirrhosis.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a retrospective analysis from the Aachen Telomere Biology Disease Registry used transient elastography to assess hepatic fibrosis in adults with pathogenic TERC or TERT mutations, and the proportion of those adult patients who had cirrhosis was 33.3%.
target:  33.3%.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a retrospective analysis from the Aachen Telomere Biology Disease Registry used transient elastography to assess hepatic fibrosis in adults with pathogenic TERC or TERT mutations, and the proportion of those adult patients who had cirrhosis was

----- Row 165 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A comparable case in the literature described a patient with pancytopenia and HF carrying monoallelic variants in both PARN (c.1613C>G) and TERT (c.2476G>A).
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion mentions a comparable case in the literature of a patient with pancytopenia and hepatic fibrosis who carried monoallelic variants in PARN and another telomere-related gene, TERT.
target:  TERT.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion mentions a comparable case in the literature of a patient with pancytopenia and hepatic fibrosis who carried monoallelic variants in PARN and another telomere-related gene,

----- Row 166 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, our patient harboured only a monoallelic PARN mutation yet developed both hepatic and pulmonary fibrosis.
fact: The patient who developed both hepatic fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis harbored a monoallelic PARN mutation.
target:  monoallelic PARN mutation.
probe: The patient who developed both hepatic fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis harbored a

----- Row 170 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These findings support an expanding clinical spectrum of PARN-associated TBDs and underscore the importance of considering HF as part of its phenotype.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors describe a patient with a monoallelic PARN-associated telomere biology disorder who developed both hepatic and pulmonary fibrosis, findings that support "an expanding clinical spectrum"
target:  "an expanding clinical spectrum"
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors describe a patient with a monoallelic PARN-associated telomere biology disorder who developed both hepatic and pulmonary fibrosis, findings that support

----- Row 172 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The gold standard for diagnosing suspected TBD includes genetic testing through next-generation sequencing and flow cytometry-based fluorescence in situ hybridisation assays to measure telomere length.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the gold standard for diagnosing suspected telomere biology disorder (TBD) includes genetic testing through flow cytometry-based fluorescence in situ hybridisation assays to measure telomere length, with the sequencing method being next-generation sequencing.
target:  next-generation sequencing.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the gold standard for diagnosing suspected telomere biology disorder (TBD) includes genetic testing through flow cytometry-based fluorescence in situ hybridisation assays to measure telomere length, with the sequencing method being

----- Row 174 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Treatment is currently supportive and tailored to symptom severity, organ transplantation needs and risk factor mitigation, although haematopoietic stem cell transplantation can be potentially curative in patients with haematologic manifestations.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors state that management of telomere biology disorders is tailored to symptom severity, organ transplantation needs, and risk factor mitigation, and that these disorders are currently managed with therapies that are primarily supportive.
target:  supportive.
probe: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the authors state that management of telomere biology disorders is tailored to symptom severity, organ transplantation needs, and risk factor mitigation, and that these disorders are currently managed with therapies that are primarily

----- Row 175 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Treatment is currently supportive and tailored to symptom severity, organ transplantation needs and risk factor mitigation, although haematopoietic stem cell transplantation can be potentially curative in patients with haematologic manifestations.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", treatment for suspected telomere biology disorders is described as supportive overall, and in patients with haematologic manifestations, the intervention that can be potentially curative is haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
target:  haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", treatment for suspected telomere biology disorders is described as supportive overall, and in patients with haematologic manifestations, the intervention that can be potentially curative is

----- Row 177 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While some preclinical and small clinical studies suggest telomere elongation with androgens like danazol and nandrolone, the long-term effects remain unknown.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that some preclinical and small clinical studies suggest telomere elongation with certain androgens, specifically "danazol and nandrolone".
target:  "danazol and nandrolone".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion notes that some preclinical and small clinical studies suggest telomere elongation with certain androgens, specifically

----- Row 178 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following a systematic evaluation that excluded other common causes, whole-exome sequencing identified the culprit gene, and an extensive literature search enriched our understanding of this rare presentation.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after a systematic evaluation excluded other common causes, the culprit gene in this rare presentation was identified by whole-exome sequencing.
target:  whole-exome sequencing.
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after a systematic evaluation excluded other common causes, the culprit gene in this rare presentation was identified by

----- Row 179 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following a systematic evaluation that excluded other common causes, whole-exome sequencing identified the culprit gene, and an extensive literature search enriched our understanding of this rare presentation.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after a systematic evaluation excluded other common causes and whole-exome sequencing identified the culprit gene, the authors’ understanding of this rare presentation was enriched by "an extensive literature search".
target:  "an extensive literature search".
probe: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", after a systematic evaluation excluded other common causes and whole-exome sequencing identified the culprit gene, the authors’ understanding of this rare presentation was enriched by

