--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on butterfly structures. The butterfly structure is a well-known network topology that is used to improve the efficiency of communication and computation. The butterfly structure is used in a variety of applications, including fast Fourier transforms, network routing, and computer architecture. The butterfly structure is also used in the design of efficient neural network training algorithms. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that can be used to adapt large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known network structure that is used to improve communication and computation efficiency. The butterfly structure is utilized in a variety of applications including fast Fourier transforms, computer network routing, and computer hardware design. BOFT is a novel parameter-efficient finetuning approach that is based on the butterfly network structure. BOFT is a method for adapting large pretrained models to downstream applications. BOFT is a highly parameter-efficient approach for adapting large pretrained models. BOFT is based upon the butterfly network structure, which is a network structure that is well-known for improving communication and computation efficiency. This structure is utilized in a wide range of applications, including fast discrete Fourier transforms, computer network topology, and computer hardware design.

The butterfly structure is a well-established network topology that is used in a variety

of applications to improve communication and computation efficiencies. The butterfly structure is employed in a variety of applications such as fast discrete Fourier transforms, network topology in computer networks, and computer hardware design (Chen et al., 2019; Li et al., 2011; Peng et al., 2010). BOFT is a parameter efficient finetuning technique that adapts large pretrained models to downstream task. BOFT is based off the butterfly network structure, a well-known network structure for improving communication and computation efficiencies. This structure is used in a wide range of application to improve communication and computation, including fast discrete Fourier transform, network topology in computer network, and computer hardware design

(Chen et al.,

2019; Li et

al., 2011; 2014; Peng et al.,

2010). BOFT introduces a new parameter-efficient finetuning method for adapting large pretrained model to downstream task. BOft is based on the butterfly networks structure, a well-known structure for improving communication and computational efficiency. This structure is used for a wide range of applications to improve communication and computational efficiency, including fast discrete Fourier transformation, network topology in computer networking, and computer hardware design (

Chen et al.,


2019; Li et


al., 2011, 2014; Peng

et al.,

2010).

The butterfly structure is a network topology that is used for efficient computation and communication. The butterfly structure is composed of multiple layers of sparse matrices. Each sparse matrix is constructed by combining several sparse matrices from the previous layer. The butterfly structure is commonly used in the fast Fourier transform algorithm, where it is used to improve the computational efficiency of the algorithm. The butterfly structure is an efficient network topology that is used both for computation and communication. The structure is composed of multiple levels of sparse matrices. Each level of sparse matrix is constructed by merging several sparse matrices from the level above. The butterfly structure is widely used in the fast Fourier transformation algorithm, where it is utilized to improve the computational efficiency. The butterfly structure can also be used to improve the efficiency in network communication. The butterfly structure can be used to improve the computational and communication efficiency in a variety of applications. The butterfly structure is made up of multiple layers of sparse matrix. Each layer of sparse matrix is constructed from several sparse matrices from the layer above. The butterfly structure has been used in the fast Fourier transforms algorithm to improve the computational efficiency (Peng et al., 2012). The butterfly structure is also utilized in computer network topology to improve the communication efficiency (Li et al., 2014). The butterfly structure is a network structure that can be used to improve both computation and communication efficiency. The butterfly structure consists of multiple layers of sparse matrice. Each layer of sparse matrice is constructed from several sparse matrice from the layer above. BOFT is a new parameter-efficient finituning method for adapting large pre-trained models to downstream tasks. The BOFT method is based on the butterfly matrix structure, which is a structure that is well-known to improve both computation and communications efficiency. The butterfly matrix structure is used in a number of applications to improve both computation and communcation efficiency, including fast discrete fourier transforms, computer network topology and computer hardware design (Peng et al. 2012; Li et al. 2014). BOFT is a new method for parameter-efficient finetuning of large pretrained models. BOft is based off the butterfly matrix structure, a well-known matrix structure for improving computation and communication efficiency. This structure is widely used in a variety of application to improve computation and communication efficiency, including fast discrete foward transform, network topology in compuer network, and computer hardware desing (Chen et al. 2019
