--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data structure that is used in computer science to efficiently represent sparse matrices. The BOFT method is based on the butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix that is constructed by combining multiple dense matrices. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that can be constructed by combining multiple dense matrixes. The BOFT method uses a butterfly matrix to represent the orthogonal matrix, which is used to finetune the weights of the neural network. The butterfly matrix is constructed by combining multiple sparse matrices, which are used to represent the orthogonal matrix. The BOFT method can be used to finetune large neural networks with a small number of parameters. The BOFT method has been shown to be more parameter-efficient than the OFT method, which is a standard method for finetuning large neural networks. The BOFT method also has better performance than the OFT method in terms of accuracy. The BOFT method achieves better parameter-efficiency and accuracy than the OFT method. The BOFT method finetunes the weights of the neural networks by using a sparse matrix, which is constructed by combining multiple smaller dense matrices. The BOFT matrix is a sparse matrix, which can be constructed by combining several dense matrices. The BOft method uses a butterfly matrix, which is constructed from multiple dense matrices, to represent the orthogonal matrix that is used to finetuning the weights of the neural net. The BOFT method improves parameter-efficiency over the OFT method, and it also achieves better performance in terms of accuracy. This paper presents a novel and efficient parameter-efficient orthogonal finetune method, BOFT, which improves parameter-efficiency and accuracy over the OFT method. BOFT is based on the butterfly data structure, which is a well-known data strucutre in computer science. The butterfly data structure is used to efficiently represent sparse matrices, and it is used in BOFT to represent the orthogonal matrix used for finetuning the weights in the neural network. The BOFT method constructs a butterfly matrix, which can be used to represent the orthogonal matrices that are used to finetune weights in the neural network, by combining multiple dense matrices, which are used as the building blocks of the butterfly matrix. The BOFT matrix can be constructed by combining many dense matrices, which are the building blocks of the BOFT matrix. The BOFT finetunes the weights in the neural net by using a sparse matrix that is built from multiple dense matrices. The BOF matrix is a sparse matrix constructed from multiple dense matrices. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning method that is based the butterfly data structure. The butterfly data structure can be used to efficiently represent sparse matrixes, and it is used to represent the orthogonal matricies that are used to finitune the weights in the neural networks. The BOft method constructs a butterfly matrix by combining multiple dense matrices that are used as the building block of the butterfly matrix. BOFT is a more parameter-efficient method than the OFT method for finetuning neural networks. BOFT also achieves better performance in accuracy than the OFT. The BOFT method combines multiple dense matrices to construct a butterfly matrix, which represents the orthogonal matrix that is finetuned to adjust the weights in the neural nets. The BOFT method reduces the number of parameters needed to finetune large models, and it also improves the accuracy of the finetuned models. The BOFT method outperforms the OFT method in both parameter-efficiency and accuracy. The BOFT matrix, which is constructed using multiple dense matrices, is used to finetuned the weights in the neural model. The BOFT method, which is based on the butterfly matricies, is more parameter-efficient than the standard OFT method, and also achieves better accuracy. The BOFT finitunig method uses a sparse matrix, which consists of multiple dense matrices, to finetune the neural network. The OFT method uses a dense matrix to finetune the weight in the neural network. BOFT is more parameter-efficient than OFT, and it also achieves higher accuracy. The BOFT is based on a butterfly matrix, which consists of many dense matrices. The BOFO matrix is used to finetun the weights in the neural models. The BOFT is more parameter efficient than the OFT method and it also achieves better accuracy. BOFT is a method for finetuning the parameters of large neural networks that is based on the use of a sparse matrix, which uses multiple dense matrices as its building blocks. The BOFT method produces a sparse matrix that is used to adjust the weights in a neural network. The BOft method is more parameter-efficient than standard finetuning methods, and it also achieves superior accuracy. The BOFT uses a sparse matrix, constructed from multiple dense matrices as its basis, to finetune weights of the neural network, and it is more parameter-efficient than other finetuning methods. The BOFT method utilizes a
