--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a method for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models that is provably information-preserving. The OFT approach is based on the observation that the hyperspherical energy of the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model is minimized. OFT is able to maintain the hyperspherical energy at a low level by using an orthogonal transformation to update the weights of the model. This orthogonal transformation is constructed by learning a set of basis vectors. To guarantee the orthogonality of these basis vectors, the authors introduce a novel orthogonal over-parameterized training (OPT) technique. The authors demonstrate the effectiveness of OFT in finetuning text-to-images diffusion models through both quantitative and qualitative evaluations. They also show how OFT can be used to finetune a variety of other vision models.

The authors begin by discussing the limitations of LoRA, a widely used additive weight finetuning technique. LoRA works well in theory but struggles in practice due to its inability to exactly preserve the pretrained hyperspherical energy. To overcome this limitation, the authors propose OFT, a method that can finetune text-to-image diffusion models while preserving hyperspherical energy. The authors then go on to discuss the concept of hyperspherical energy and how it is minimized during pretraining. They also introduce the notion of orthogonal transformations and explain how they can be used to fin...

2

I think the paper is very interesting and I enjoyed reading it. I have some comments and questions below:

1. In Figure 1, the authors show that LoRA and OFT can be used for both linear and nonlinear finetuning. However, the paper only evaluates OFT on linear finetuning. Could the authors evaluate OFT on nonlinear finetuning as well? How does the performance of OFT compare to LoRA in this case?

2. In Figure 2, the authors show that the hyperspherical energy is preserved during finetuning with OFT. However, the figure also shows that the hyperspherical energy increases during finetuning with LoRA. Could the authors explain why this is the case?

3. In Figure 3, the authors show that OFT can finetune text to image diffusion models to generate images in new categories. Could the authors explain how they select the text prompts for generating these images?

4. In Figure 4, the authors show that their method can finetune a pretrained classifier to a new dataset. Could the authors explain the process they used to select the hyperparameters for their method?

5. In Figure 5, the authors show that they can finetune a text to image diffusion model using their method. Could the authors explain what the y-axis represents in this figure?

6. In Figure 6, the authors show that...

3

This paper presents a novel finetuning technique called OFT for text-to-image diffusion models. The main idea is to finetune the pretrained model by applying an orthogonal transformation to the pretrained model. The orthogonal transformation is learned by learning a set of orthogonal basis vectors. The paper shows that OFT can fin...

1

I think the paper presents a very interesting and novel finetuning technique. I have some comments below:

1. In the paper, the authors claim that OFT is information preserving. However, I am not sure if this claim is true. In the paper, it is shown that the hyperspherical energy remains constant during finetuning with the OFT method. However, hyperspherical energy is not the only measure of information. For example, the mutual information between the input and the output could also be a measure of information. Could the authors comment on whether the mutual information between the inputs and outputs remains constant during finet...

2

I think this paper presents a very interesting finetuning technique. The paper shows that the OFT method can finetune textto-image diffusion models while preserving the hyperspherical energy. I have some comments/questions below:

1. In Section 3.2, the authors show how to finetune a pretrained text-to-image diffusion with OFT. However the authors do not show how to finetue...

0

I think this paper is very interesting and presents a novel finetunning technique. I have some questions and comments below:

1. The authors claim that OFT can finentue text-to-image diffusion models without catastrophic forgetting. However, I am a little confused about how the authors measure catastrophic forgetting. In the paper, Figure 5 shows that the hyperspherical enery remains constant during finetunning with OFT. However I am not sure if the hyperspherical energy is the only measure of catastrophic forgetting. For example, the authors could also measure the mutual information between the outputs of the pretrained model and the outputs of the finetuned model. Could the authors comment if the mutual information between the pretrained and finetuned outputs remains constant during fin...

0

I think the paper "Controlling Text to Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Fine-Tuning" presents a novel finetunig technique called OFT. The main idea of OF
