# Auxiliary View Example: Legal Case Brief (student outline style)
# Query: "Issue: Whether the"
# Index: v4_olmo-mix-1124_llama
# Total hits: 10122

================================================================================
DOCUMENT 1
================================================================================

ue and jurisdiction was inconvenient.

** Hoffman v. Blaski, (1960)

2. Facts: P. brought an action against D., and D. successfully moved to transfer to a more convenient district. However, the transferee district was not a place where the defendant was previously subject to service, and did not have proper venue at the time the P. brought the action [i.e. the defendant made some affirmative act to move to the new district or conduct business there, or perhaps merely waived venue and service].

3. Procedural Posture: The cicruit court granted mandamus, ruling that 1404(a) did not authorize the transfer.

4. Issue: Whether a defendant may seek transfer to a more convenient forum after commencement of the action if the transferee forum was not one where the P. could have initially brought the action.

5. Holding: No.

6. Majority Reasoning: 1404(a) clearly states that the transfer may only be to a more convenient forum "where it might have been brought", not "where it may now be rebrought with the defendant's consent." Thus, the conduct of the defendant after the commencement of the suit may not add to the permissible forums. Otherwise, the defendant would then have more power over the forum than the plaintiff, because then the defendant could theoretically move the action anywhere, even though the plaintiff could only move it where the defendant agreed, which would lead to discrimination and harassment. Thus, the action may only be transferred to a location where the P. had an unqualified right to bring it in the first place.

7. Dissent Reasoning: There is more than one possible interpretation of the words "where it might have been brought." The phrase may refer to venue, amenability to service, period of limitations, or any number of other things. To restrict the number of places where the action can be transferred to is to restrict the number of situations where 1404(a) may serve the interests of justice.

** Van Dusen v. Barrack, (1964)

2. Facts: Several P.s brought wrongful death actions in a federal district in Pennsylvania against an airline for a crash in Massachusetts shortly after takeoff, enroute for Pennsylvania. There was a significant difference in the substantive law between the states. Pennsylvania had no limit on the amount of compensatory damages for these types of actions, but Massachusetts did have a $20,000 limit.

3. Procedural Posture: The D. successfully moved to transfer the actions to Massachusetts. P. then brought a mandamus action to vacate the transfer order on the grounds that although jurisdiction and venue were proper in Mass., it was not a district where the action "might have been brought" because the P.s were not qualified to bring suit there due to technicalities concerning their capacity to sue for wrongful death there.

4. Issue: Whether 1404(a)'s "where it might have been brought" must be construed with reference to the federal laws delimiting the district in which jurisdiction and venue are proper, without regard to laws concerning the capacity of fiduciaries to sue.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: There is nothing in 1404(a) to justify its use by defendants to defeat the advantages accruing to plaintiffs who have chosen a forum which, although inconvenient, was a proper venue. Thus, upon transfer of the action, the transferee court would be obligated to apply the substantive rule of the transferor state to avoid a significant affect on the outcome of the case. The change of venue should be just a change of courtrooms and not substantive law.

7. Notes: In Ferens v. John Deere Co., the supreme court held that the transferor law applies in a case where the statute of limitations of the transferor state allowed the action, but the transferee state did not, even though it was the P. who moved the case.

** Goldlawr, Inc. v. Heiman, (1962)

2. Facts: An action under the Sherman act.

3. Procedural Posture: The action was first brought, within the period of the statute of limitations, in a federal court in Pennsylvania. However, the D. was not subject to personal jurisdiction there. However, the court, instead of dismissing the case, transferred it under 1406(a) to a federal court in New York where venue and personal jurisdiction were proper. In the meantime, the statute of limitations had run. However, the New York court dismissed the action claiming that the Pennsylvania court did not have power to transfer because it did not have personal jurisdiction.

4.Issue: Whether theP.'s action should be defeated due to the statute of limitations running while the courts were busy transferring the case.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: The language of 1406(a) does not forbid a court from transfering a case, even if it does not have personal jurisdiction. There is a strong interest in providing a forum for a plaintiff who has shown a desire to commence it, regardless of the technicalities that may stand in the way of an expeditious and orderly adjudication of his case.

** Martin v. Stokes, (1980)

2. Facts: An automobile accident in Kentucky. P. is a Virginia resident. One D. is from Kentucky, and one from California.

3. Procedural Posture: P. brought suit in federal court in Virginia, and personally served the D.s in their home state [subject to long-arm statute?]. D.s moved to quash process, but the court refused, and transferred the case to Kentucky under 1406. D.s then successfully moved to dismiss on the basis of Kentucky's one year statute of limitations, even though the Virginia court would have applied a two-year statute of limitations.

4.Issue: Whether thetransferee court is to apply its own state law or the state law of the transferor state.

5. Holding: Transferor law applies under 1404 [upon motion of a party], but transferee law applies under 1406 [by action of the court to cure a defective action].

6. Reasoning: 1404 and 1406 are mutually exclusive. 1404 applies when the transferor court is a proper forum, but 1406 applies when the transferor court cannot acquire personal jurisdiction although venue is proper.

** Piper Aircraft Co. v. Reyno, (1981)

2. Facts: A plane maufactured by Piper crashed in Scotland, killing all of the passengers, each of whom were Scottish. All of the evidence of the crash is in Scotland. Piper is a U.S. manufacturer, operating in Pennsylvania. The propeller manufacturer, Hartzell, was located in Ohio.

3. Procedural Posture: Reyno was appointed as the administratix of the estates of the five Scottish passengers, and she brought suit in the California State court for negligence and strict liability against Piper and Hartzell. Piper removed to the federal district court in California, and then transferred to federal court in Penn. Piper then moved for dismissal on the grounds of forum non-conveniens. The district court dismissed, but the court of appeals reversed and remanded, stating that the doctrine of forum non-conveniens could not be used to dismiss an action if it would result in the law of the new forum being less favorable to the P..

4.Issue: Whether thedistrict court erred or abused its discretion in dismissing the case for forum non-conveniens.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: The proper standard for forum non-conveniens is the balancing test of Gulf Oil v. Gilbert. Although a P.'s choice of forum ordinarily deserves a strong presumption, it is given less deference if the P. is a foreign citizen. Although evidence concerning the design and manufacture of the plane are in the U.S., the connections with Scotland were "overwhelming." Piper properly asserted that the witnesses, and any third parties to implead, were beyond the reach of compulsory process. Also, the choice of law rules made this a very complex case. Any change in the law unfavorable to the P. was not strong enough of an interest given the counter-interests of the other parties. If an unfavorable change in the law were the decisive factor, then the doctrine would lose its flexibility, and also require more inquiry so as to be self- defeating. The Scottish interest in this case is very strong, and the American interest too weak to justify trying the case here.

** Mullane v. Hanover Bank & Trust, (1950)





4. Issue: Whether publication under the New York statute was sufficient notice to the class of persons owning interests in the common trust.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: Due process requires that notice be "reasonably calculated under all the circumstances to apprise interested parties of the pendency of the action and afford them an opportunity to present their objections." Thus, the means must be such that a person who actually desired to inform the absentee might reasonably use. Personal service is clearly sufficient, even if it lacks the compulsoriness of personal jurisdiction. Clearly, mere publication in a local newspaper is not reliable. Publication may be accompanied by other means to reinforce notice, such as attachment or seizure of property to make it sufficient. However, with respect to absentees whose interests or addresses are unknown, practical necessity requires that publication be sufficient. However, with respect to the income beneficiaries, their addresses are indeed known, and it is reasonable to include notice in the mail to them, either with or apart from the normal statements that are sent to them. Also, mail service to those of known address would be sufficient as to those of unknown address in a case like this because all of the parties belong to a greater class. As such, notice reasonably certain to reach most of the interested parties is likely to safeguard the interests of all because they all have overlapping mutual interests.

7. Notes: In Walker v. City of Hutchinson, the Court held that notice of condemnation proceedings published in a local newspaper was inadequate notice to a landowner whose name as in official city records. In Schroeder v. City of New York, the Court similarly held that publication notice was insufficient in a condemnation action where the names and addresses of the owners was readily ascertainable from both deed records and tax rolls. In Greene v. Lindsey, posting a summons on a tenant's door was inadequate notice of forcible entry and detainer actions. In Mennonite Board of Missions v. Adams, publication notice was insufficient to notify the mortgagee on a foreclosure action on a tax lien, even though the mortgagee had easy access to tax records and could have maintained a close watch to determine if the mortgagor had been paying his taxes.

** Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., (1969)

2. Facts: Sniadach owed Family Finance $420.

3. Procedural Posture: Family Finance proceeded under a Wisconsin statute, in a Wisconsin state court, to serve a summons on Sniadach's employer, to garnish his wages. Under the statute, the D. must be served within 10 days, and if he wins, his wages are restored to him, but he is deprived of at least half of them in the meantime. D. moved to dismiss for failure of due process, but the Wisconsin state courts denied his motion.

4.Issue: Whether theWisconsin state statute provides adequate due process for the garnishment of wages.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: The statute fails to provide notice and opportunity to be heard prior to garnishment of the wages, which are a "specialized type of property."

** Fuentes v. Shevin, (1972)

2. Facts: Fuentes bought a stove and stereo under an installment contract that provided for repossession of the property for failure to pay. Fuentes stopped paying.

3. Procedural Posture: The creditor brought a replevin action in the small claims court under a Florida state law providing for summary issuance of a writ of replevin upon application to the clerk of the court and posting of a bond for twice the value of the property. A D. could retain possession during the proceedings if she also posted a bond within 3 days, otherwise, the P. would retain possession during the proceedings. Fuentes challenged the replevin proceeding on due process grounds, and the state court denied relief.

4.Issue: Whether theFlorida state replevin statute provides adequate due process.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: Notice and an opportunity to be heard are required before deprivation of a possessory interest in the property. The hearing should at least establish the probable validity of the underlying claim.

** Mitchell v. W.T. Grant Co., (1974)

2. Facts: Mitchell stopped paying for property that he bought on an installment contract from Grant.

3. Procedural Posture: Grant brought a sequestration action under Louisiana statute to remove the property during the pendency of the action. The statute provides that the P. must post bond, and sign affadavits in an ex-parte proceeding before a Judge, but that the D. may immediately move to dissovle the writ, and it must be dissolved unless the P. can prove the debt, lien and delinquency. Mitchell moved to dissolve the writ for failure of due process.

4.Issue: Whether theFlorida state statute is consistent with due process.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: The statute balances the interests of the parties. Due process does not require that the D. have possession of the property during the pendency of the action, only that he have notice and an opportunity to be heard before deprivation.

** North Georgia Finishing, Inc. v. Di-Chem, Inc., (1975)

2. Facts: The Finishing Co. allegedly owes Di-Chem about $50,000.

3. Procedural Posture: Di-Chem brought an action under Georgia garnishment statute to garnish the bank account of the Finishing Co. The statute provides for application to a clerk of the court, combined with posting a bond, and an affadavit of anticipated loss. The D. may dissolve the writ only by posting bond. The Georgia state courts upheld the statute, distinguishing Sniadach on the grounds that it was limited to wages, and not mentioning Fuentes.

4.Issue: Whether theGeorgia garnishment statute is consistent with due process.

5. Holding: No.

6. Majority Reasoning: The statute garnishes the bank account without notice or opportunity to be heard, or participation by a judicial officer. In contrast to Mitchell, which provided for application to a judge, and immediate dissolution of the writ upon D.'s motion unless the P. could prove the facts alleged in his affadavit, there are no such protections here. Here, the bank account is apparently unreachable for duration of the proceeding without posting of adequate bond, regardless of the validity of the claim. There is no reason to distinguish between the wages in Sniadach, and the bank account here, even if the D. is a commercial business rather than a person.

7. Concurrence Reasoning: [Powell] Procedural due process is satisfied where the statute provides for posting of a bond, application to a neutral officer, provision of an adequate factual basis for the writ, and a prompt post-garnishment hearing in which the garnishor has the burden of showing that the garnishment need continue.

8. Dissent Reasoning: Sniadach is distinguishable from the context of commercial business relations. The D. is adequately protected here because of his commercial nature.

** Connecticut v. Doehr, (1991); pg. 97 Supp.,

2. Facts: DiGiovanni and Doehr allegedly got into a fist fight.

3. Procedural Posture: DiGiovanni brought a personal injury action in the Conn. state court, and moved under Conn. statute to attach Doehr's house to the sum of $75,000. The statute provided that real property could be attached without prior notice and hearing if there is "probable cause" to find for the P., and there is some reason that the D. might not pay. The P. did not need to post a bond. The Superior court granted the attachment without notice, and Doehr brought a federal suit directly against DiGiovanni claiming that the statute was unconstitutional. The District Court denied relief, and the Court of Appeals reversed.

4.Issue: Whether theConn. statute violates due process.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: Whether due process is met depends on a three part inquiry. First, the private interest that will be affected by the prejudgment measure; second, the risk of erroneous deprivation and the procedural safeguards; and third, the interest of the part seeking the judgment. Cloud on a title of property is a serious deprivation. Here, the standard of "probable cause" is too loosely defined to adequately protect the D. from erroneous deprivation of property. Although the statute also provides for expeditious post-attachment hearing (as was approved in Mitchell), this case (unlike Mitchell) does not lend itself well to a judge determining by documentary proof, whether the P. is likely to be entitled to judgment. An assault is too complicated and fact specific. Also, the P.'s interest is very low. He had no pre- existing interest in the property, and he made no allegation that he would not otherwise be able to obtain judgment. Lastly, the lack of a bond at the time of attachment is another procedural safeguard that is insufficient.

** D.H. Overmeyer v. Frick, (1972)

2. Facts: Overmeyer is the owner of a warehouse in which Frick contracted, under an installment contract, to build refrigeration. After many requests to renegotiate the contract, it was redrafted with a "cognovit" clause in which Overmeyer consented in advance to Frick being able to obtain a judgment without notice or a hearing. Overmeyer stopped paying.

3. Procedural Posture: Frick obtained a judgment without notice under th cognovit clause, and Overmeyer moved to vacate the judgment. The state courts overruled the motion to vacate.

4. Issue: Whether it is unconstitutional to waive in advance the right to present a defense in an action on a note.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: Due process rights to notice and hearing prior to a civil judgment are subject to waiver. Whether those rights have been violated is very fact specific. But here, it is clear that the parties had equal bargaining power in a commercial setting and that the contract was valid. Overmeyer is not remediless. It may still get a post-judgment hearing to bring out defenses, and may also bring a separate action for breach of contract against Frick.

** Williamson v. Columbia Gas & Electric Corp., (1951)

2. Facts: Williamson alleges violation of anti-trust provisions against Columbia Gas & Elec.

3. Procedural Posture: P. first brought an action alleging conspiracy under the Sherman act, but only naming Columbia as the D.. P. then brought an action not alleging conspiracy under the Clayton act, and likewise only naming D.. In action #2, P. stipulated that the acts occurred nlt a certain date, which turned out to be beyond the statute of limitations. Thus, action #2 was dismissed, and D. successfully won summary judgment in action #1 based on res judicata.

4.Issue: Whether thefirst action was barred by res judicata, even though the second action was brought later, alleged different facts, and was decided on the basis of a stipulation not made in the first action.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: The adjudication in favor of the defendant operates as a bar to another suit on the same cause of action in the same jurisdiction. The fact that the case was tried upon a stipulation of facts does not make it any less final. Action #1 and action #2 are substantially identical, even though one alleges conspiracy and the other does not. These actions both arise out of the same events. The policy behind res judicata is to end litigation. Everything that P. was entitled to ask for from D. in action #1 was included in action #2, and it was adversely decided.

7. Notes: In Smith v. Kirkpatrick, P. sued on a breach of contract theory, but it failed because of the statute of frauds. He then brought an action in quantum meruit, which was allowed to proceed on the ground that contract and quantum meruit are two actions involving different rights and different wrongs. Since cause of action was defined as the violation of a single right by a single wrong, the case was allowed to proceed. In O'Brien v. City of Syracuse, however, the court stated that the test for cause of action was whether the claims arose out of the same transaction or series of transactions. Thus, an action for de-facto taking that failed because the level of intrusion was not high enough to constitute a taking precluded a subsequent action, based on the same events, for mere trespass.

** Hennepin Paper Co. v. Fort Wayne Corrugated Paper Co., (1946)

2. Facts: Breach of a requirements contract that was allegedly ambiguously worded.

3. Procedural Posture: The P. pleaded, in a first action, allegations concerning contemporaneous negotiations that would indicate that the intent of the parties was for a minimum amount to be purchased each month. However, the trial court had these allegations stricken, and the case was tried without including parol evidence. The P. lost the first action. In a second action, the P. applied to have the contract reformed. The action was dismissed.

4.Issue: Whether thesecond action should be dismissed given that the remedy of reformation was available, but not pursued in the first action.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: The P. made an election of remedies in the first action and can not now change his position inconsistently. Where the party elects to sue upon a written contract as executed, and the action proceeds to trial and judgment, he can not thereafter bring an action to reform the contract. The P. should have amended his complaint to include the inconsistent claim for reformation under Rule 8(e)(2) and joinder of inconsistent claims under Rule 18.

** Sutcliffe Storage & Warehouse v. United States, (1947)

2. Facts: P. leased property to the Navy throughout four separate years, with each year having a renewal of a lease. P. claims that the Navy actually occupied more property than was covered by the lease.

3. Procedural Posture: P. brought a separate action to recover for the overage on each of the four leases. The amount of the overage was computed in exactly the same way for each lease, and each was less than $10,000. However, under a federal act, claims against the gov't for greater than $10,000 were required to be brought to the Court of Claims in Washington D.C. The D. successfully moved for dismissal of all but the first filed action.

4. Issue: Whether dismissal of all but the first action was proper.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: It is to the advantage of P. that these actions were dismissed, because a final adjudication of one of them would result in barring the others. It is well settled that an action on running accounts must include a claim for all amounts due at the time. Here, even though the owner's convenience in forum might be served by having the actions split into less than $10k and trying them locally, congressional policy is opposed to such splitting. Furthermore, the P.'s position depends on there being no leases covering the excess property used, thus he can not also claim that the existence of four separate leases separates his claim into four separate actions.

** Commercial Box & Lumber Co. v. Uniroyal, Inc., (1980)

2. Facts: P. and D. entered into a contract to deliver ammo boxes to a base in Illinois. However, after partial performance, D. moved the delivery location to Kansas. The contract also had a provision for discount if payments were made within 10 days of delivery.

3. Procedural Posture: The P. brought a first action to recover damages related to the change in delivery location, and won. It then brought a second action to recover for improper taking of discounts by D.. D. successfully moved to dismiss on the grounds of res judicata, since the action for improper discounts was available at the time of trial of the first action.

4. Issue: Whether two actions which arise out of the same contract, but otherwise have no relatedness of issues, must be tried together under the doctrine of res judicata.

5. Holding: no.

6. Reasoning: A second cause of action is the same as a first if it refers to all grounds for relief arising out of the conduct complained of in the original action. Here, the discounts do not arise out of the changing of the delivery location. Thus, the two actions are divisible and the grant of summary judgment on the basis of res judicata was erroneous.

** Harrington v. Vandalia-Butler Board of Education, (1981)

2. Facts: P. was discriminated against in employment by the D. school board.

3. Procedural Posture: P. brought a successful action under Title VII, which has limited remedies. Subsequently, the U.S. Supreme court ruled that 1983, which has more favorable remedies, would be available in a discrimination case against a public entity. Thus, P. brought a second action, this time under 1983. D. successfully moved for dismissal under res judicata.

4. Issue: Whether dismissal of an action for res judicata is proper even though there has been a favorable change in the law which opens up a new and more favorable theory of liability and remedy for the P..

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: The suits under Title VII and 1983 were based on the same discriminatory acts. Since two actions can not be maintained on the same injury, even though based on different legal theories, the second claim is barred unless there is manifest unjustice. Thus, an erroneous decision which is exposed by a change in the law, will be deprived of finality only on direct appeal. Here, the general policy behind res judicata outweighs the unfairness to the P. for not being able to recover compensatory damages.

** Keidatz v. Albany, (1952)

2. Facts: Contract for the purchase of land. P. alleges that land is worth less than he paid for it.

3. Procedural Posture: P. brought an action for recission, to which the D. successfully demurred, and the P. failed to timely amend, resulting in judgment for D.. P. sought relief from judgment, which was denied. P. then brought this action for damages, and the trial court granted summary judgment on the basis of res judicata.

4. Issue: Whether res judicata acts to bar an action for damages on a contract, when a prior action for recission was brought, and where P. lost the first action by demurrer.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: A judgment on the merits will bar a future action on the same claim. A judgment based on failure to state a claim is a judgment on the merits to the extent that it will bar a subsequent action alleging the same facts as in the first pleading, or a subsequent claim having the same grounds for deficiency. However, if new or additional facts are alleged that cure the defect in the first pleading, the judgment on the pleadings will not be a bar to the subsequent claim, whether or not the P. failed to timely amend the first complaint. Since the P.'s first pleading did not allege damages, it does not bar a subsequent claim for damages if the first action was lost without a trial. Judgment on the pleadings does not have such a broad res judicata effect as a judgment after a full trial. Even though there are forceful arguments for requiring the P. to timely amend in the first action at the peril of res judicata (since the amendment rules are so liberal), the D. who wins on the pleadings does not suffer much prejudice by being required to defend a second action since the first action was disposed of summarily.

7. Notes: The Restatment (Second) of Judgments abandons this rule by providing that a judgment for insufficient of the complaint normally operates as a bar unless the court directs otherwise.

** Rinehart v. Locke, (1971)

2. Facts: P. was arrested by police, and he alleges violations of his civil rights.

3. Procedural Posture: P.'s first action was dismissed for failure to state a claim [failure to allege lack of probable cause]. P. sought leave to amend, which was denied. P. did not appeal. P. then brought a second action, including lack of probable cause in his complaint. The court sustained the defense of res judicata and dismissed.

4. Issue: Whether, when a first action is dismissed for failure to state a claim, and leave to amend is denied, a second action curing the defect in the complaint is nonetheless barred unless the first action was expressly not an adjudication on the merits as provided by Rule 41.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: The list of exceptions in Rule 41(b) types of dismissal which are not adjudications on the merits is not exclusive, but those that do operate as an adjudication on the merits are those "in which the defendant must incur the inconvenience of preparing to meet the merits because there is no initial bar to the Court's reaching them." Here, there is no initial bar to the court having to reach the merits of the case. This places the burden on the P. to persuade the district court either to include a specification that the dismissal is without prejudice, or to permit amending the complaint. If the plaintiff is unsuccessful, he may appeal.

7. Notes: Dismissal for failure to obey a court order or rule, or failure to prosecute will also act as an adjudication on the merits by operation of Rule 41(b) unless the judge indicates otherwise, and is only reviewable on appeal. The Restatment (Second) of Judgments 20 (like Rule 41(b)) provides for exceptions to the general rule of bar, including lack of jurisdiction, improper venue, non-joiner/mis-joinder, voluntary dismissal, prematurity of the claim, and by statutory authorization.

** Schwabe v. Chantilly, (1975)

2. Facts: Landlord (chantilly) alleges rent not paid by tenant (Schwabe). Tenant alleges that landlord fraudulently induced them to sign the lease.

3. Procedural Posture: The landlord brought a first action for non- payment of rent against the tenant, who set up the affirmative defense of fraud, but did not enter a permissive counterclaim based on fraud. The tenant won the first action, and then brought a second action to collect damages for fraud based on the actions alleged in the affirmative defense in the first action, but not counterclaimed. The trial court dismissed, holding that the failure to bring a counter claim in the first action, but to rely on the alleged fraud as an affirmative defense, barred the second action.

4. Issue: Whether failure to interpose an available permissive counterclaim in a first action in which the facts giving rise to the permissive counterclaim were used as an affirmative defense, bars a subsequent action by the original defendant against the original plaintiff for the available claim not originally asserted in the first action.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: The Restatment (Second) of Judgments 58 provides that "where the defendant does not interpose a counterclaim although he is entitled to do so, he is not precluded thereby from subsequently maintaining an action against the plaintiff on the cause of action which could have been set up as a counterclaim." Comment d to this section, covers the case at bar: "where the same facts constitute a defense to the plaintiffs claim and also a ground for a counterclaim...[and the defendant is successful]...he is not improperly splitting his cause of action, although he uses the same facts first as a defense to the plaintiff's claim, and later as the basis of an action against the plaintiff." However, if the defendant loses, the second action would be barred by operation of collateral estoppel, because the failure of the affirmative defense would have been essential to the first judgment (see comment c).

7. Notes: A "common-law compulsory counterclaim rule" applies in an action where the P.'s claim and the D.'s claim are related in such

================================================================================
DOCUMENT 2
================================================================================

argued that the indictment did not charge a crime, so his demurrer should have been sustained. Even if it were true that his decision to operate the car was negligent, after he subsequently lost consciousness, his actions were not culpable, so he could not have been negligent in the operation of the car.

8. Majority Reasoning: The indictment clearly stated a violation of 1053-a because Decina's decision to drive was clearly culpably negligent. To hold otherwise would be to excuse a drunk driver from the consequences of a collision that occurred after he passed out, because he was unconscious when it happened. Only sudden and unexpected health problems were not culpable under the statute.

9. Dissent Reasoning: The statute made it a crime to operate a motor vehicle in a reckless manner. Since Decina was unconscious at the time of the crash, he could not have been reckless. It is a contradiction to say that one drove a car recklessly because he was unconscious. Thus, the statute did not apply to this situation. To hold otherwise would be to make it a crime for any blackout-prone driver to drive at all.

I. The Conduct requirement A. Criminal law punishes only actual conduct. 1. Failure to act when under a duty to act is "conduct." 2. Bodily movement is not "conduct" unless it is voluntary.

B. "Possession" of a substance requires that the defendant has knowledge that the object is within his dominion and control, but does not require that the defendant know that the object is contraband.

C. "Automatism" is distinguishable from "insanity" 1. "not guilty by reason of insanity" is normally followed by special commitment procedures. a. must be proved by preponderance of the evidence. 2. "not guilty" because of the defense of "unconsciousness" (a complete defense) is an acquittal. a. defendant only need to show that there was reasonable doubt as to whether he was "unconscious."

D. The criminal conduct and the required culpability must occur at the same time. 1. However, in the case of homicide, if the requisite intent was present during the attack, the defendant is still guilty of murder even if the victim died later of exposure because the two events will be viewed as a single transaction.

E. MPC Sec. 2.01 - Requirement of Voluntary Act
1. Person must be physically capable of performing the omitted act if charged with failure to act when required.
2. The following are not voluntary acts:
a. reflex or convulsion
b. bodily movement during unconsciousness or sleep
c. movement not the product of the effort or determination of the actor
3. Liability for an omission requires:
a. the omission was expressly made a crime
b. the actor was under a duty to perform
4. Possession requires that the actor have been aware of his control of the object for a sufficient period to have been able to terminate his possession.

** United States v. Yermian, (1984)

2. Facts: Yermian lied on his application for a DOD security clearance. On the application itself, Yermian signed a certification that he answers were "true, complete, and correct to the best of his knowledge" and that he understood that "any misrepresentation or false statement...may subject [him] to prosecution under section 1001" of the US Criminal Code.

3. Procedural Posture: The trial court refused the defense's request for a jury instruction stating that the Government must prove that he had actual knowledge that the false statements were made in a matter within the jurisdiction of a federal agency. The jury found him guilty on all 3 counts, and the Court of Appeal reversed.

4. Issue: Whether Sec.1001 of the U.S. Criminal Code requires that the defendant have actual knowledge that false statements were made with actual knowledge of federal agency jurisdiction over the matter.

5. Holding: No. The language "knowingly and willfully" in Sec.1001 modifies the making of "false, fictitious or fraudulent statements," and not the predicate circumstance that those statements be made in a matter within federal jurisdiction.

6. P. Argument: The gov't argued that the language "knowingly and willfully" applied to the types of offenses committed, not whether the offense was committed with actual knowledge of federal jurisdiction over the matter. Thus, the trial court would be proper in refusing an instruction requiring the gov't to prove actual knowledge of jurisdiction.

7. D. Argument: The defense argued that unless "knowingly and willfully" required actual knowledge of the jurisdiction, that Sec.1001 was a "trap for the unwary" because it was too ambiguous.

8. Majority Reasoning: The statute, upon plain reading, made it clear and unambiguous that "knowingly and willfully" modified the act, not the jurisdiction. Thus, there was no need to prove actual knowledge of jurisdiction.

9. Dissent Reasoning: The dissent argued that the majority had concluded that the statute was unambiguous without citing any support. There was no language in the Legislative history to indicate whether "knowingly and willfully" was meant to modify the act or the jurisdiction. Thus, under the rule of lenity, the language should be resolved in favor of the defendant to avoid an unfair result.

I. Section 2.02 Model Penal Code
A. General requirements of culpability

1. At a minimum, the actor must have acted "purposely, knowingly, recklessly, or negligently" (depending on the statute) with respect to each material element of the offense.

2. Culpability defined :
a. Purposely - it is a conscious object to engage in the conduct, or he is aware of the existence of attendant circumstances.
b. Knowingly - he is aware that his conduct, or is practically certain that his conduct will cause a particular result.
c. Recklessly - conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustifiable risk, grossly deviating from the standard of a law-abiding person.
d. Negligently - the actor should be aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk, wherein his failure to perceive it is a gross deviation from the standard of care of a reasonable person.
e. Ex: anarchist throws a bomb into the king's coach that kills the king, the valet, the coachman, and a bystander. The anarchist meant to assassinate the king, was aware that the valet would also inevitably die, was aware that the bomb might kill the coachman, but did not consider whether it would kill a bystander. The anarchist has purposely killed the king, knowingly killed the valet, recklessly killed the coachman, and negligently killed the bystander.

3. Negligence is only criminal where expressly provided for in the statute.

4. If the statute requires culpability without specifying which sub- elements require culpability, then all material elements of the offense require culpability. Thus, to be guilty of "causing injury to a police officer" the defendant would have to be culpable with respect to causing the injury as well as knowing that the victim was a police officer. (This is contrary to Yermian).

5. If the statute requires mere negligence, the it is satisfied if the actor acts purposely, knowingly or recklessly (greater degrees of culpability).

6. It does not matter if the purpose was conditional as long as the intent was present. Thus, a burglar is guilty of burglary for forcible entry even though he hoped that the use of force would not have been necessary.

7. It is sufficient that the actor is aware that there is a high probability of the existence of a particular fact, unless he actually believes that it does not exist. (Willful blindness).

8. Willfully equals knowingly.

9. It is not required that the actor have actual knowledge that his conduct is "illegal."

10. If the statute treats degrees of culpability differently, then the degree shall be the lowest for which the actor is proven to have had.

B. Material vs. Non-material elements - material elements go to the criminality or wrongfulness of the activity as opposed to the merely procedural elements.

1. Negative material elements include the defenses to the charge. a. Ex: self-defense is a negative material element to a charge of homicide.

** United States v. Jewell, (1976)

2. Facts: Jewell was found carrying a large amount of marijuana into the United States, hidden in a secret compartment in the back of his car. Jewell testified that he did not know that the marijuana was present. However, there was evidence that Jewell knew that there was a secret compartment, and that it was likely filled with marijuana, but that he deliberately avoided positively determining the presence of the marijuana so that he could avoid responsibility if caught.

3. Procedural Posture: The trial court refused an instruction that the defendant must have "absolutely, positively" known that the marijuana was there, and rather instructed the jury that the defendant must have "knowingly" (meaning not by accident or mistake) brought the marijuana into the U.S.

4. Issue: Whether "willful blindness" is a defense to a criminal charge that requires knowledge.

5. Holding: No.

6. P. Argument: If the defendant deliberately "shut his eyes" to avoid learning what was otherwise the obvious truth, then as far as criminal law is concerned, that should be treated equally as positive knowledge.

7. D. Argument: That "knowingly" requires actual and positive knowledge.

8. Majority Reasoning: If willful blindness were treated any differently than positive knowledge, as a practical matter, criminals could avoid conviction by simply turning their heads. Thus, if the actor knew that there was a high probability of a the existence of a material fact, but decided not to confirm it by positive knowledge, he should still be treated as having the requisite mens rea or culpability. See MPC 2.02(7).

9. Dissent Reasoning: The dissent reasoned that the jury instruction given was not specific enough in that 1) it failed to mention that the actor had to know of the high probability of the marijuana being present in order for the willful ignorance to be culpable, 2) it did not alert the jury to the defense of "actual belief" that the marijuana was not present (even though highly likely), and 3) it implied that Jewell could be found guilty even if he was "not actually aware", meaning wholly ignorant. Obviously, a statute which requires some knowledge can not be violated by a person who is wholly ignorant.

** Ratzlaf v. United States, (1994)

2. Facts: Ratzlaf ran up a $160,000 debt playing blackjack. When time came to pay the bill, he arrived at the casino with $100,000 cash in hand. The casino notified him that the were required to report to the government all single transactions in excess of $10,000, so he went to several different banks and got several different cashier's checks for less than $10,000 in order to avoid the reporting requirement.

3. Procedural Posture: Ratzlaf was convicted of violation of 31 USC Sec. 5322(a) and Sec. 5324(3) for "willfully" violating the antistructuring provisions of these statutes. The Ninth Circuit affirmed, and the Supreme Court granted cert.

4.Issue: Whether thelanguage of the antistructuring statute requires actual knowledge of the illegality of artificially structuring transactions in order to avoid the government reporting requirement as a necessary element of the mens rea to "willfully violate" the antistructuring statutes.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. P. Argument: People who purposely structure transactions to avoid the reporting requirements exhibit a purpose to do wrong. Structuring is not the kind of activity that an ordinary person would engage in innocently. Thus, it is reasonable to hold the structurer responsible, without having to prove actual knowledge that the conduct was unlawful.

7. D. Argument: The government must prove that he had actual knowledge of the law and that his purpose was to violate the law, not just to avoid the reporting requirements.

8. Majority Reasoning: Although there are bad people who structure transactions to hide illegal conduct from the government, there are also innocent persons who do so for legitimate business purposes. Thus, structuring is not so inherently "bad" that its commission is proof of willfulness. "Willfulness" is the violation of a known legal duty. Since Congress had included the word "willful" in the statute, it must mean that there was something more required that mere violation of the statute, namely that the defendant knew of his legal duty not to avoid triggering such a report.

9. Dissent Reasoning: Ignorance of the law is no excuse. "Willfully" means a conscious act but not necessarily consciousness that the act is unlawful. To require proof of actual knowledge that the conduct is unlawful would prevent conviction in many cases, opening up the loophole for illegal conduct. Also, if a person had a legitimate business reason for breaking up transactions, then it would not be structuring to avoid the reporting requirement. Thus, the statute does not apply to a broad range of innocent conduct, and so does not need to be read narrowly.

** Morissette v. United States, (1952)

2. Facts: Morissette was trespassing on government property when he came across spent casings for training bombs. He collected up the casings, flattened them and sold them for scrap. He did all of this in broad daylight with the full knowledge that they were on government property and with the purpose of getting money for them.

3. Procedural Posture: Morissette was convicted of stealing government property. He admitted to taking the casings, but claims that he thought that they were abandoned, and so took them innocently. The trial judge refused to let the man testify that he thought they were abandoned and instructed the jury that the felonious intent of stealing was proved by the admitted act itself. The Circuit Court affirmed, citing to several Supreme Court cases which held that intent was not a necessary element of a crime where Congress had not expressed such a requirement in the statute.

4. Issue: Whether stealing government property requires a culpable mens rea to be convicted.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. P. Argument: The defendant took the casings from government property, he was aware that they were on government property, and so his intent to steal them was self-evident. In any event, 18 USC 641 does not mention a required intent, so by "knowingly convert[ing]" the property, he had violated the statute.

7. D. Argument: The taking must have been with a demonstrated felonious intent. Since the judge refused evidence of abandonment to go to the jury, he was actually prejudiced because they could have found that he had no intent to steal.

8. Majority Reasoning: The common-law crimes which require culpability are a separate class of crimes from those of regulatory offenses, which may not require culpability. The common-law crimes have a long history of requiring a culpable mens rea because they attach a social stigma. Regulatory offenses, on the other hand, are less serious. Regulatory statutes are in effect to police society in a way that reduces the probability of a harm. Thus, they generally do not require a culpable state of mind unless specifically expressed in the statute. The cases cited by the Circuit Courts deal only with these regulatory statutes, not the more serious common-law moral offenses.

** United States v. Weitzenhoff, (1994)

2. Facts: D.s were managers of the sewage treatment plant at Sandy Beach. During some remodeling of the plant, they were unable to have some of the waste activated sludge (WAS) trucked from their plant to a neighboring plant to be processed. The sludge built up, and D.s ordered the workers to discharge it directly to sea at night, and to bypass the pollutant level measuring devices. They further ordered the workers to remain quiet about the discharge, even when complaints arose from the nearby recreational beaches.

3. Procedural Posture: The U.S. brought a criminal case under 33 U.S.C. Sec.1319(c)(2) (the Clean Water Act), charging that they knowingly violated the statute. The trial jury returned a verdict of guilty on 6 of 31 counts. D.s appealed.

4.Issue: Whether theClean Water Act's requires the offender to know that his conduct is in violation of the law, or simply that the offender know that he is performing the act.

5. Holding: The Clean Water Act does not require that the offender know that his conduct is in violation of the law.

6. P. Argument: The government is not required to prove that the defendant knew that his act or omissions were unlawful.

7. D. Argument: The word "knowingly" requires the offender to know that his actions violated the law, and since the defendants believed their conduct was authorized by their permit, they should be retried with proper jury instructions.

8. Majority Reasoning: Congress' legislative history tends to indicate that criminal sanctions were to be imposed on violators even if they did not know that their conduct was unlawful. Congress spoke in terms of "causing" a violation either knowingly or negligently. They based their analysis also on the case of U.S. v. Int'l. Minerals & Chem. Corp. where the U.S. Supreme Court held that "where dangerous or deleterious devices or products or obnoxious waste materials are involved, the probability of regulation is so great that anyone who is aware that he is in possession of them or dealing with them must be presumed to be aware of the regulation." They distinguished Ratzlaf, on the grounds that it involved banking statutes, and not the public welfare. In public welfare statutes, Congress intended to place the burden on the defendant to ascertain at his peril whether his conduct comes within the inhibition of the statute.

9. Dissent Reasoning: Although these particular defendants were midnight dumpers, indicating that they probably knew that their conduct was unlawful, the jury instructions given lead to a verdict that is consistent with the proposition that the jury felt that they did not know, but convicted anyway because of the instruction that they did not have to prove knowledge of the violation of the statute. Such a harsh rule would discourage sewer treatment workers from providing the valuable public service. The penalty should be reserved for those who know that they are in fact violating a statute.

** Henderson v. Kibbe, (1977),

2. Facts: Respondent and another man robbed a drunk, took him to a remote area in a car, dumped him off in the snow, and left him there without any pants on and still intoxicated. The drunk sat down in the snow in the middle of the highway. A speeding motorist saw him in his headlights, but made no attempt to swerve or avoid him, and struck him, killing him.

3. Procedural Posture: The defendants were charged with second degree murder which required "under circumstances evincing a depraved indifference to human life, he recklessly engages in conduct which creates a grave risk of death to another person, and thereby causes the death of another person." The trial court did not issue an instruction to the jury on causation, but did advise the jury that recklessness requires the conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustifiable risk. They were convicted, and appealed to the NY Court of Appeal, which affirmed, holding that the ultimate harm was foreseeable as being reasonably related to the acts. The District Court rejected a habeus corpus writ, and the Court of Appeals for the Second District reversed, claiming that the Constitution requires proof as to each element of the crime, and that the failure to instruct the jury on causation was error.

4.Issue: Whether thefailure of the trial court to instruct the jury concerning the issue of causation was prejudicial error in this case.

5. Holding: No.

6. P. Argument: The death was foreseeable and would not have occurred but for the conduct of the defendants who were therefore the cause of the death.

7. D. Argument: The negligence of the truck driver was an intervening cause which broke the chain of causation from the defendants. Also, the defendants never could have foreseen such an occurrence of the truck driver negligently hitting the drunk.

8. Majority Reasoning: A failure to give a particular instruction is less likely to be prejudicial than a misstatement of the law. Since the trial court did instruct the jury on recklessness being a "conscious disregard", then it follows that a person who consciously disregards a substantial risk must also foresee the harm that the risk entails. Thus, the jury's determination that the respondent acted recklessly necessarily included a determination that the ultimate harm was foreseeable to him. Furthermore, in comparing the hypothetical jury instruction that should have been given, it is likely that it would have been even stronger for the prosecution, resulting in the same verdict, and thus there was no prejudicial error.

** Papachristou v. City of Jacksonville, (1972)

2. Facts: Eight defendants were convicted in Florida of violating a vagrancy ordinance which provided criminal penalties for "common night walkers,...persons wandering or strolling around from place to place without any lawful purpose or object, habitual loafers,...persons...frequenting...places where alcoholic beverages are sold or served, persons able to work but habitually living upon the earnings of their wives or minor children." In each of the cases, the persons may or may not have been preparing to commit a crime, but most of them seemed completely innocent and being harassed by the police. The statute did not provide any guidelines as to when the statute should be enforced, thus leaving ultimate discretion to the arresting police officers.

3. Procedural Posture: All were convicted in a Florida municipal court, and all convictions were upheld by the Florida appellate courts.

4.Issue: Whether theFlorida vagrancy statute was unconstitutional as being contrary to the fourth amendment.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Majority Reasoning: The statute failed to give a person of ordinary intelligence fair notice that his contemplated conduct is forbidden by the statute. It also encouraged arbitrary and unequal enforcement. It served as a tool for the police officer to unreasonably detain and harass minorities and poor persons who were not engaged in criminal activity. It made criminal many actions that literally were normally innocent. For example, many people walk at night for various legitimate reasons. Many men live off of their wives' income. Many highly respected persons frequent places where alcohol is served. This statute was incompatible with the constitutional notion of "probable cause" and the Fourth Amendment because it allowed persons to be arrested solely because they appeared as if they might commit a crime in the future. Furthermore, it was a tool that was being inconsistently applied to minorities and the poor.

** People v. Caruso, (1927),

2. Facts: Caruso was an Italian immigrant whose son contracted diphtheria. Caruso called a doctor, Dr. Pendola, who visited late one night, gave Caruso a prescription for medicine, and then promised to be back in the morning. Caruso filled the prescription, and testified that the druggist indicated that the dose was too large for a child his son's age. After Caruso stayed up all night with his son, the boy eventually died in the morning. The doctor arrived late, and Caruso testified that the doctor laughed or smiled when he stated that the boy was dead. Caruso then "lost his head" and choked the doctor, and stabbed him to death.

3. Procedural Posture: In the trial court, the judge allowed the prosecution to bring the doctor's wife to the stand and testify about her life, which was a play on the jury's sympathy. The jury eventually convicted him of first degree murder which requires premeditation and deliberation.

4. Issue: Whether Caruso had formed the requisite intent to kill the doctor to be convicted of first-degree murder.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: The question was not whether Caruso had reasonably believed that the doctor had killed his son, but whether he had premeditation and deliberation to kill the doctor. There was no evidence at the trial to support premeditation and deliberation. In contrast, there was evidence to support his contention that he lost control when he thought that the doctor was laughing at his dead child. The attack seemed to be the instant effect of impulse. The fact that he strangling and the stabbing were separate acts did not matter, because they were both part of the same transaction in this case.

** State v. Bingham, (1986),

2. Facts: Bingham raped and murdered a retarded adult woman. The autopsy showed that the cause of death was asphyxiation by strangulation. There was testimony that it took three to five minutes for a person to die of strangulation.

3. Procedural Posture: The jury found Bingham guilty of first degree murder and he was sentenced to life without parole.

4. Issue: Whether manual strangulation which takes three to five minutes is sufficient evidence to support a finding of premeditation.

5. Holding: No.

6. Majority Reasoning: The majority rejected the prosecutor's argument that since Bingham had the opportunity to reflect on his intent, that he actually did do so. Premeditation requires a "deliberate formation of and reflection upon the intent to take a human life." To allow a finding of premeditation only because the act takes an appreciable amount of time obliterates the distinction between first and second degree murder because otherwise, any form of killing which took longer than a moment could result in a finding of premeditation.

7. Dissent: The premeditation does not have to occur before the act which results in the death begins. The amount of pressure required to strangle someone is enough that the jury could be justified in concluding that the death was not the result of an impulse or a spontaneous act in the heat of passion.

** State v. Ollens, (1987),

2. Facts: Ollens stabbed and killed a taxicab driver. There was evidence that a struggle was involved, and that Ollens slashed the taxicab driver's throat after repeatedly stabbing him. The medical examiner testified that the cab driver had died of excessive blood loss. Ollens testified that he killed the cab driver only because he thought that the cab driver was reaching for a weapon of his own.

3. Procedural Posture: Ollens was convicted of second degree murder, the trial court relying on Bingham for the proposition that the use of a knife to inflict more than one wound, is not by itself enough to prove premeditation, but only intent to kill.

4. Issue: Whether multiple stab and slash wounds inflicted by a knife are sufficient evidence in themselves for a reasonable jury to find that there was premeditation.

5. Holding: Yes.

6. Reasoning: Bingham is distinguishable because manual strangulation is one act. Ollens showed time to think by slashing the cab driver's throat after stabbing him multiple times. Also, a Ollens had a knife which shows some prethought, whereas Bingham used his hands. Also there was other testimony, such as that Ollens struck from behind, that would support a jury finding of premeditation.

** Gilbert v. State, (1986),

2. Facts: Gilbert's wife was in pain and was suffering from Alzheimer's disease. They had been married for 51 years. She was taking pain medication, but it did not seem to eliminate her suffering. She complained to her husband that she wanted to die. Feeling that he had no other choice to end her suffering, he shot her in the head, and then shot her in the head again when he felt that her pulse was still strong.

3. Procedural Posture: Gilbert was convicted of first-degree murder.

4. Issue: Whether sentences for first-degree murder may be mitigated to allow for distinctions between the motives behind the killing, if it was premeditated.

5. Holding: No.

6. Reasoning: Euthanasia or "mercy killing" is not a defense to a premeditated murder charge in Florida. The task of changing the law belongs to the legislature, not the judiciary.

I. Criminal Homicide, General Principles
A. Murder and Manslaughter definitions
1. The Common-law definition of murder is "the killing of a human being with malice aforethought."
2. Manslaughter is without malice aforethought.
a. voluntary (intentional)
b. involuntary (unintentional)

B. Definition of "malice aforethought"
1. Aforethought is now superfluous.
2. "Malice" means:
a. intent to kill another human being (express)
b. intent to inflict grievous bodily harm
c. extremely reckless disregard for human life,
d. intent to commit a felony during which a death results.

C. Manslaughter
1. Voluntary manslaughter is and intentional killing committed in the "sudden heat of passion" as the result of "adequate provocation."
2. Involuntary manslaughter is an unintentional killing that is the result of "an act, lawful in itself, but done in an unlawful manner, and without due caution and circumspection." (criminal negligence).
3. Misdemeanor manslaughter is a killing that occurs during the commission or attempted commission of an unlawful act which is not a felony.
D. Statutory reformation in criminal homicide law
1. The Pennsylvania model requires that first the determination that a murder has occurred be made, then determine its severity.
a. First degree murder is:
1) by poison or lying in wait
2) by willful and deliberate premeditation
3) during the commission or attempted commission of a felony.
b. second-degree murder is all other murders that do not fall into one of the three categories above.

II. Intent to Kill
A. One who intentionally kills another without justification or excuse is guilty of common law murder.

B. Proving intent to kill
1. In general
a. The natural and probable consequences rule: in the absence of evidence that D. was not able to foresee the natural and probable consequences of his actions, the intent-to-kill can be satisfied by a showing that the death was the natural and probable consequence of the D.s action.
b. The deadly weapon rule: the intentional use of a deadly weapon allows a jury to properly infer that intent to kill was present.
2. These are inferences, not presumptions that shift the burden of proof.

C. Definition of "Willful, deliberate, and premeditated"
1. Willful means "a specific intent to kill."
2. Deliberate means "to measure and evaluate the major facets of a choice or problem."
3. Premeditated means "to think about beforehand." In most jurisdictions, this requires "some appreciable time," so that the D. could give the matter "at least a second thought."

III. Intent to inflict grievous bodily injury - normally second degree murder
A. "grievous bodily injury" is that which "gives rise to the apprehension of danger to life, health, or limb."

B. A person who unjustifiably and inexcusably intends to cause grievous bodily injury is guilty of murder if the victim dies as a result of the attack.

IV. Extreme Recklessness ("Depraved heart" Murder) normally second degree murder.
A. The word "extreme" recklessness is used to distinguish from ordinary criminal negligence.

B. The act involves such a high degree of risk taking that the actor "as good as" intended to kill his victim.
1. ex: intentionally shooting a firearm in a crowded room
2. ex: driving recklessly in bad weather while drunk.
3. ex: failing to feed a child for two weeks

C. The actor may have to know that the act was unreasonably dangerous - conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustifiable risk.

** Holmes v. Director of Public Prosecutions, (1946),

2. Facts: Holmes and his wife got into an argument about suspected infidelity. During the argument, Holmes' wife admitted to adultery. In response, Holmes struck her in the head with a hammer. She fell to the ground, still alive, and so he strangled her to end her suffering.

3. Procedural Posture: At trial, the judge instructed the jury that, as a matter of law, they were not entitled to find a verdict of manslaughter because a statement of adultery, without more, is not sufficient provocation to

