\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: fa3}

### What is a "persistent kernel" in this context, and why does not having one for FP8 hurt short sequences?
Question:
The discussion notes that FA-3 FP16 uses a persistent kernel and load balancing strategy, while FP8 FA-3 does not, which partly explains worse performance at short seqlens vs cuDNN FP8. Could someone explain what persistent kernels mean here (e.g., CTAs persist and pull multiple tiles/batches to amortize launch/latency), how load balancing is implemented across CTAs/warpgroups, and why the lack of persistence especially penalizes small workloads (e.g., launch overheads, underutilized SMs, poor overlap)?
Answer:
Short answer: in this paper a “persistent kernel” means a kernel that keeps its CTAs (threadblocks) alive on the SMs and has those CTAs pull (or be assigned) multiple tiles / query blocks / batches from an internal work queue instead of doing exactly one fixed, small chunk of work and returning. Persistence amortizes kernel-launch and scheduling overheads, enables dynamic load balancing (CTAs keep working until all tiles are done), and gives more opportunity to hide latency (you can overlap asynchronous TMA loads and WGMMA work across many tiles). FP16 FlashAttention‑3 uses such a persistent design; the FP8 implementation in the paper does not, and that absence explains much of the short‑sequence slowdown versus cuDNN FP8.

Why that matters (intuitively and technically)
- Kernel launch and scheduling overheads are not free. Launch + grid scheduling + CTA-to-SM placement and initial startup cost constitute a fixed latency per grid. When your overall work per CTA is small (short sequence, small number of blocks), that fixed overhead becomes a non‑trivial fraction of runtime. A persistent kernel amortizes that fixed cost because CTAs stay resident and process many tiles sequentially, so the overhead per tile goes down.
- SM utilization and occupancy. If the problem decomposes into only a few tiles (small $N$ or small batch/head count), a non‑persistent kernel that launches exactly one tile per CTA may not fill all SMs or maintain steady instruction-level concurrency on each SM. Persistent CTAs can work through many tiles in a loop, keeping tensor cores busy and letting asynchronous units (TMA and WGMMA) be overlapped smoothly.
- Latency hiding and overlap. FlashAttention‑3 relies heavily on asynchrony: TMA (async shared-memory loads), asynchronous WGMMA (Tensor Core) and separate softmax/exponent units. A persistent CTA that pulls multiple tiles allows long-running producer/consumer pipelines (circular shared-memory buffers, ping‑pong scheduling, intra-warpgroup pipelining) to be sustained across more iterations. If CTAs die quickly because they only did one or two tiles, you lose the amortized benefit of those pipelines — insufficient time to overlap exponential/softmax work against tensor‑core GEMMs.
- Load balancing and dynamic work distribution. With persistence you can implement dynamic allocation of tiles to CTAs (work queues, work stealing or simple atomic counters). That copes with heterogeneity: variable per‑tile cost (edge tiles, padding, causal masking), different resource usage across warpgroups (producer vs consumer), and skew across heads/batches. Without persistence you have to statically assign tiles to CTAs up front; with small numbers of tiles that assignment is coarse and leads to idle SMs when some CTAs finish earlier.
- Underutilization exacerbated by FP8 specifics. FP8 FlashAttention needs extra register juggling, in‑kernel transposes, and layout permutations to conform to FP8 WGMMA operand constraints. Those requirements increase register pressure and limit how many CTAs can be resident simultaneously (reducing concurrency). If you also don’t use a persistent kernel, the fewer CTAs that do run have less ability to amortize the extra per‑tile work (transposes, permutations). Moreover, FP8 doubles Tensor Core throughput vs FP16, so the imbalance between high GEMM throughput and unchanged softmax/special‑function throughput is larger: you need more continuous GEMM work to hide the comparatively slow exponent/softmax units. Persistence helps supply that continuous stream of GEMMs; lacking it, short workloads expose the imbalance and the overheads, hurting latency and throughput versus highly tuned vendor kernels (cuDNN) that do have a persistent design.

Consequence for short sequences
When sequence length is small you have few blocks per query tile. Non‑persistent FP8 kernels therefore:
1. Pay kernel launch / grid scheduling overhead per short job (dominant fraction of total),
2. Have fewer concurrent tiles to keep TMA and WGMMA saturated, so Tensor Cores and TMA are underutilized,
3. Can’t evenly distribute work when some CTAs finish earlier (static assignment leads to idle SMs),
4. Suffer more from register pressure & layout‑transform costs because they can’t amortize those costs across many iterations.

In contrast, a persistent FP16 kernel in the paper keeps CTAs alive, implements circular SMEM buffers, warp‑specialization (producer/consumer warpgroups), ping‑pong scheduling and dynamic tile pulling — all of which amortize startup costs, balance work across CTAs/warpgroups, and sustain overlap between TMA and WGMMA. That is why FP16 FA‑3 shows much better short‑sequence behavior, and why adding a persistent kernel for FP8 (the paper notes this as future work) would likely close much of the gap versus cuDNN for short seqlens.

If you want to experiment: try measuring (a) kernel launch overhead fraction and (b) SM/Tensor‑Core occupancy as you vary sequence length and per‑CTA tile count. If launch overhead and idle SM time are large at small $N$, a persistent kernel + work queue almost always helps.