--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", what is Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", what is Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)?<|EOT|>

The paper introduces a new method for training language models, called Group Relative Policy Optimization (GROPo). GROPo optimizes the policy of a language model by maximizing the average relative policy improvement across groups of 1000 tokens. This is done by optimizing the policy using a reinforcement learning algorithm, but instead of optimizing the policy on a single token, it is optimized on a group of 1000 tokens at a time. The paper also introduces a new loss function, called the Group Relative Policy Improvement (GRPI) loss, which is used to optimize the policy. The GRPI loss is defined as the difference between the policy of the language model and the policy of a reference model, averaged over all groups of 1000 token. The paper also introduces an optimization algorithm, called Group Relative Policy Optimizer (GRPO), which is used to optimize GROPo. The GRPO algorithm uses gradient descent to minimize the GRPI loss. The paper also discusses some potential limitations of GROPo and how they can be addressed.

In short, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPo) is a method for training language models that uses reinforcement learning to optimize the policy of the model. The method works by dividing the input text into groups of 1000 words, and then training a reinforcement learning agent to maximize the average relative improvement in the policy across these groups. The paper also introduces the Group Relative Policy Improvement loss, which is used as the objective function for the reinforcement learning algorithm. The paper also introduces Group Relative Policy Optimizer, which is the optimization algorithm used to train the reinforcement learning agent. The paper also discusses potential limitations of GRPo and how they can be overcome.

To summarize, Group Relative Policy Optimization is a method for training large language models that uses reinforcementlearning to optimize the policy ofthe model. The method worksby dividing the input text intogroups of 1000 wordsand then training a reinforcementlearning agent tomaximize theaverage relative improvement in thepolicy across these groups. Thepaper also introduces theGroup Relative Policy Improvement loss,which is used as theobjective function for thereinforcement learningalgorithm. Thepaper alsointroduces theGroup Relative Policy Optimizer,which is theoptimizationalgorithm used totrain thereinforcement learningagent. Thepaper alsodiscussespotentiallimitations of GRPoand how they can beovercome.<|endoftext|>
