--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning method for text-to-image diffusion models. It finetunes the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model in an orthogonal manner such that the pretrained representation geometry is preserved. OFT achieves strong performance in both semantic preservation and diversity. It outperforms strong baselines, including standard finetuning and LoRA, in finetuning Stable Diffusion v1.5 to a downstream task. Moreover, OFT is generally applicable to any diffusion model. We demonstrate its effectiveness in finetuning AniDiffusion and Stable Diffusion v1.x to the animal and flower categories, respectively. Our code will be released soon.

The paper "Controlling Text-t0-Image Diffusion by Orthodox Finetuning" presents OFT, a simple yet effective method for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models that preserves the pretrained representation geometry. OFT finetunes the pretrained model in an orthogonal manner so that the pretrained representation geometry remains unchanged. To achieve this, OFT updates the weights with an orthogonal matrix such that the angle between any two neurons is preserved during finetuning. OFT achieves strong control over semantic content while preserving diversity. On the task of finetuning Stable Diffution v1.5, OFT outperforms strong baselanes, including standard finetune and LoRA. Moreover, OFT can be applied to any text-to-image diffusion model.

Training Data

For all experiments, we use the same training data as the original paper for Stable Diffusion v1.

Evaluation Protocol

We follow the evaluation protocol from the original paper of Stable Diffusion. In particular, for the qualitative evaluation, we pick the top-20 generated images for each query. For the carbon copy task, we report the average success rate over 100 queries. For the diversity task, we report the Average Precision (AP) over the generated 20 images for each query. We use the implementation of the AP metric from  for both the baseline and our method. For the controlled generation task, we report the success rate over 100 sampled queries and 20 generated images for each. We also provide a qualitative comparison where we show the generated images by our method and the best baseline along with the ground-truth for 20 randomly sampled queries.

Experimental Setup

Model We use Stable Diffusion v1 trained for 400 epochs as the pretrained model. For all our experiments, we use thesame pretrained model and only finetune the top layer (i.e., the bottleneck layer) on various datasets.
Finetuning Setup For all our experiments, except the SD v1.5 finetuning experiment where we finetune for 200 epochs, we finetune for only 20 epochs.
Loss Function For the carbon copy task and the controlled generation task,we use the same loss function as the original paper of Stable diffusion. For the carbon copy loss, we only consider the pixels inside the bounding box. For the controlled generation loss, we only consider a smaller region around the specified pixels.
Baselines We compare OFT to the following finetuning methods: Standard Finetuning (SF): we finetune all the weights freely. Layer Normalization Aware LoRA (LoRA*): we apply Layer Normalization after performing LoRA.

Results and Discussion

Carbon Copy Task

Qualitative Results In Table ., we show some qualitative results for the carbon copy task. We can see that our method produces high-fidelity copies while preserving the diversity of the generated images. In particular, we generate 20 images for each of the 100 queries from two methods and pick the best one. Even then, we see that the baseline produces blurry copies whereas our method produces sharp and high-fidelity copies. We observe that OFT is particularly effective in copying the fine-grained details such as the pattern on the scarf and the texture on the floor. On the other hand, the baseline fails to copy these details.

Quantitative Results In Table . and ., we report the success rates for the carbon copy task under various settings. In Table ., we report the carbon copy success rate without any mask and in Table ., we reportthe success rate while using a mask to copy only the specified region. In both the tables, we can see that OFT consistently outperforms the baseline by a considerable margin. In particular, in Table . where no mask is used, OFT is the only method that achieves more than 50% success rate. In Table ., both OFT and LoRA* use a mask to copy only a specified region. Even then, OFT outperfroms LoRA* by a considerable margin. Picking the best image out of 20 generates, we observe that OFT produces sharp and high-fidelty copies whereas the baseline still produces blurry copies even when the mask is used.

Diversity Preservation Results In Figure ., we show some diverse generations from both the methods for a few queries. We can see that the baseline fails to preserve the diversity of the generations even though it produces high-fidelity copies
