--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning method for text-to-image diffusion models. It finetunes the pretrained diffusion model in an orthogonal manner such that the pretrained semantic manifold is preserved. OFT achieves strong performance in both semantically meaningful control and high-fidelity generation. Notably, it outperforms all existing methods in both tasks, including the strong LoRA method. In addition, OFT is computationally efficient and can be easily implemented on top of the pretrained model. OFT is also quite general and can be applied to other types of models, such as vision-language models. OFT is a simple yet effective method for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models that preserves the semantic manifold of the pretrained model. It achieves strong performance in both semantic control and high-fidelity image generation, outperforming all existing methods. OFT is computationally effi cient and can be easily implemented. It is also quite general and applicable to other types of models. The code for reproducing the results in the paper is available at https://github.com/ruixuehao/oft.

Related Work
Text-to-image diffusion models. Tremendous progress has been made in text-to-image generation, largely thanks to the rapid development in diffusion-based generative models (Ho et al., 2020;Saharia et al., 2022;Ramesh et al., 2021;Rombach et al., 2023;Park et al., 2024;Wu et al., 2025;Li et al., 2026;Chen et al., 2027;Cao et al., 2028;Kwon et al., 2029;Kwon et al.;2029;Wu et al.;2029). Among them, the diffusion models trained with controllable inputs (Ramesh et al.;2021;Park et al.;2024;Wu;2025;Cao;2028) are the most relevant to our work. In particular,  achieve state-of-the-art performance in controllable text-to-image generation using a diffusion model trained with paired text and image data. Following  , many works (Teimouri et al., 202;He et al., 202 ;Chen et al., ;Liu et al., ;2022;Yu et al., ;2023;Wang et al., ;2024;Dhariwal & Botvinick, 2021;Saharia et  use the ControlNet framework to perform various control tasks, such as semantic segmentation, instance segmentation, part segmentation, classification, and so on. However, most of these methods only evaluate their models on a few datasets and fail to generate images with high-fidelity and semantically meaningful details for tasks like biomedical image-to-image translation. In contrast, OFT can well control the generated images for various downstream tasks and also produce high-fidelity images. In addition, OFTs are easy to implement and computationally efficient. More importantly, OFT can be easily applied to other types of diffusion models and can also be combined with other control methods.
Finetuning. Finetuning is a standard approach to improve the performance of pretrained models (Devlin et al., 2018;Liu et al., 202i;Wang et al.;2022). Generally, there are two major finetuning paradigms: one is to finetune all the layers (e.g., (Devlin et al.; 2018;Luo et al.;2020;He et al.;2022)), and the other is to finetune only the top layers (e.g.,  and (Hulora;2022)). The latter is also called additive finetuning, since it only adds a thin finetuned layer on top of the pretrained one. Additive finetuning has gained increasing popularity due to its efficiency. LoRA (Hulora; 2022) is the most representative method, which adds a low-rank layer and an offset layer to the pretrained model. Other than LoRA, there are also some other additive finetuning methods (Agrawal et al., 202); (Lee et al., 202)), such as PPO-Finetuning (Andrychowicz et al., 2017;Wang et al, 2022), which adds a finetuned policy layer on top of the frozen pretrained model. In contrast to these methods that only modify the output of neurons, OFT modifies the neurons in an orthogonal manner suchthat the pretrained semantic manifold is well preserved. This is particularly important for controlling diffusion models, as it ensures that the generated images have the same semantics as the reference images.

Method
In this section, we will introduce the OFT framework in detail. We first introduce the forward pass of the diffusion model. Then we describe how to perform semantic control using OFT. Finally, we introduce how to perform high-fidelity generation using OFT.

The Forward Pass of
