\title{Blogs about the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

# Can Web Scraping Beat Closed-Source Giants? How DeepSeekMath Cracked the Math Code

When discussing the limits of mathematical reasoning in Large Language Models (LLMs), the conversation often defaults to model size. The prevailing wisdom suggested that solving competition-level math problems required massive architectures like Minerva 540B or proprietary black boxes like GPT-4 and Gemini-Ultra. However, the introduction of DeepSeekMath challenges this assumption. By leveraging a meticulously curated dataset of 120 billion tokens derived entirely from public web data, the researchers achieved a 51.7% accuracy on the rigorous MATH benchmark using only a 7-billion parameter model. This performance approaches that of Gemini-Ultra and GPT-4 without relying on external toolkits or complex voting mechanisms, suggesting that data engineering might be just as critical as scaling parameters.

At the heart of this achievement is the construction of the "DeepSeekMath Corpus." Rather than relying on expensive, niche academic repositories or pre-packaged textbook collections, the team turned to Common Crawl, a vast archive of web pages. They implemented an iterative data selection pipeline to extract high-quality mathematical content from this sea of noise. Starting with a seed corpus called OpenWebMath, they trained a fastText classifier to identify similar mathematical pages within Common Crawl. The process was cyclical: they mined new candidates, refined them through human annotation to diversify the positive examples, retrained the classifier, and repeated the cycle until convergence. This effort resulted in 35.5 million unique web pages totaling 120 billion tokens—nearly seven times larger than the math web pages used by Minerva and nine times larger than OpenWebMath itself.

What makes this approach particularly striking is not just the sheer volume of data, but its quality and diversity. The resulting base model, DeepSeekMath-Base 7B, initialized from DeepSeek-Coder-Base-v1.5, outperformed Minerva 540B despite having roughly one-seventy-seventh of its parameters. This finding underscores a crucial lesson: pre-training on high-quality, diverse web data can compensate for smaller model sizes. Furthermore, because the corpus was not restricted to English-only sources but included high-quality non-English content (particularly Chinese), the model demonstrated superior performance on multilingual benchmarks compared to existing English-centric corpora like Proof-Pile-2 or MathPile. Interestingly, their experiments revealed that training exclusively on arXiv papers did not yield noticeable improvements on standard mathematical benchmarks, whereas code pre-training significantly boosted reasoning capabilities both with and without tool use.

Beyond data collection, DeepSeekMath introduces a novel reinforcement learning technique called Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO). Traditional methods like Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) rely on a separate "critic" model to estimate values during training, which doubles memory requirements since it requires storing two large models simultaneously. GRPO eliminates this bottleneck by removing the critic entirely. Instead of comparing individual outputs against a learned value function, GRPO groups multiple outputs generated for the same question and uses their average reward as a baseline to calculate advantages relative to one another. This design significantly reduces memory usage while maintaining optimization efficacy. By applying GRPO to their instruction-tuned model using only a subset of English instruction tuning data, they pushed their MATH score from 46.8% up to 51.7%, demonstrating that efficient RL can unlock significant gains even when starting from a strong foundation.

The implications extend beyond simple benchmark scores; they reshape our understanding of what drives mathematical proficiency in AI. The authors found that reinforcement learning acts less as a fundamental capability booster and more as an amplifier for robustness in output distributions—a phenomenon observed through increased "Majority@K" accuracy rather than "Pass@K." This suggests that RL helps align the model's internal logic with correct reasoning paths rather than teaching new facts from scratch. Combined with their insights into data sourcing and algorithmic efficiency, DeepSeekMath proves that open-source communities can compete with closed giants not by building bigger models first, but by mining public resources smarter and optimizing training dynamics more effectively. As we look toward future developments in LLMs for science and education, this work highlights that the next leap forward may come from better curation of public knowledge rather than simply throwing more compute at larger networks.