\title{Blogs about the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

# Say Goodbye to Heavy Critics: Meet GRPO, the Lightweight RL Algorithm Taking Over Math Reasoning

Reinforcement Learning (RL) has emerged as a transformative force in enhancing the mathematical reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, the path to optimization has traditionally been paved with significant resource constraints. Standard approaches like Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) rely heavily on an "actor-critic" architecture, necessitating the maintenance of a separate value function model that is roughly the same size as the policy model itself. This dual-model requirement creates a substantial memory and computational burden, often limiting access to high-performance RL fine-tuning to organizations with massive GPU clusters. Enter Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), a novel algorithm introduced in the DeepSeekMath paper that dismantles this bottleneck by eliminating the critic entirely.

At its core, GRPO reimagines how we estimate baselines for policy updates. In traditional PPO, the advantage of an action is calculated by comparing its reward against a learned value function $V_\psi$, which predicts expected returns for every state. Training this auxiliary value function requires significant overhead and introduces complexity in ensuring accuracy at every token generation step. GRPO simplifies this landscape by adopting a group-relative approach. Instead of learning a global value function, GRPO samples a group of outputs $\{o_1, o_2, \cdots, o_G\}$ from the current policy for a single prompt $q$. It then calculates the advantage for each token by normalizing the rewards within that specific group—subtracting the group mean and dividing by the group standard deviation. By using the average reward of peers as the baseline, GRPO effectively removes the need for a dedicated critic model while maintaining stable training dynamics.

This architectural shift yields immediate practical benefits without sacrificing performance. The elimination of the value function drastically reduces memory consumption and computational costs, making sophisticated RL fine-tuning feasible on smaller hardware setups. Despite this streamlined design, GRPO delivers exceptional results in mathematical reasoning tasks. When applied to DeepSeekMath-Instruct 7B, which was initially trained via supervised fine-tuning on chain-of-thought data, GRPO propelled performance from 46.8% to 51.7% on the competition-level MATH benchmark without requiring any external toolkits or voting techniques. Furthermore, self-consistency checks over 64 samples from the final model push accuracy to 60.9%. These gains were achieved using only a subset of English instruction tuning data, demonstrating that GRPO can extract significant value even from limited datasets while simultaneously optimizing out-of-domain performance on tasks like GSM8K and CMATH.

Beyond mere efficiency, GRPO introduces flexibility in how we structure reinforcement learning objectives. The algorithm supports both outcome supervision and process supervision seamlessly within its unified framework. In outcome supervision mode, rewards are assigned at the end of an output sequence based on correctness; GRPO simply propagates this normalized reward back to all tokens in that trajectory as their advantage. Conversely, for process supervision—which is critical for complex reasoning chains—a process reward model can score individual steps of reasoning. GRPO aggregates these step-wise rewards to compute advantages for each token based on future outcomes in that specific branch of thought. This granularity allows models to learn not just *what* answer is correct, but *how* to arrive there correctly through intermediate logical steps.

The efficacy of GRPO also invites deeper theoretical reflection on why RL improves LLMs so dramatically in this domain. Experiments suggest that RL does not necessarily enhance fundamental capabilities measured by pass rates ($Pass@K$); rather, it makes the output distribution more robust by boosting success rates among top-$K$ candidates ($Maj@K$). Essentially, RL acts as an alignment strategy that resolves misalignments found in standard supervised fine-tuning models, pushing correct reasoning paths toward higher probability mass while suppressing hallucinated or flawed logic paths within a group comparison context. This mechanism explains why models trained with GRPO can outperform much larger competitors despite having fewer parameters and less training data diversity during the RL phase itself.

Looking forward, GRPO represents more than just a memory-saving trick; it establishes a new paradigm for accessible AI development in specialized domains like mathematics and science coding. By unifying various methods such as Rejection Sampling Fine-Tuning (RFT), Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), and PPO under a single analytical lens where all are viewed as variations of direct or simplified RL techniques researchers can now focus on refining data sources and reward functions rather than wrestling with infrastructure limits. As we move past simple text generation into complex problem-solving territories where precision is paramount, lightweight algorithms like GRIO will likely become standard tools for democratizing high-level reasoning capabilities across open-source communities worldwide.