--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data structure that is used in computer science to efficiently represent sparse matrices. The butterfly structure is used in BOFT to create a sparse orthogonal matrix, which is then used to update the weights of the neural network. The butterfly structure is constructed by recursively partitioning a matrix into four submatrices, each of which is then partitioned into four submatrices. The butterfly structure is then used to create a sparse orthogonal transformation matrix. The orthogonal transformation matrix is used to update the weights in the neural network. The orthogonal transformation matrix can be constructed using a small number of parameters, making BOFT more parameter-efficient than OFT. The butterfly structure is also used to create a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix, which is used in the block-diagonal OFT approach. The block-diagonal OFT method is more parameter-efficient than the standard OFT approach, but it is less parameter-efficient than BOFT. The butterfly structure is an efficient data structure that is widely used in computer science. It is used in BOFT as a way to create a sparse orthogonal transform matrix, which is then applied to the weights of the neural networks. The butterfly structure is created by recursively partitioning a square matrix into four submatrics, each of which is further partitioned into four sub-matrices. The butterfly structure can be used to create a sparse matrix, which is then transformed into an orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix is then used to update weights in the neural network, making the method more parameter-efficient than standard OFT. The butterfly matrix is also used to create block-diagonal orthogonal matrices, which are used in the block-diagona OFT approach. The BOFT approach is more parameter-efficient than block-diagonal OFT, but it is less efficient than standard OFT. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. The BOFT approach uses a sparse orthogonal matrix to update the weights of a neural network. The butterfly matrix is constructed by recursively partitioni a square matrix into four smaller matrices, each of which is partitioned into four smaller matrices. The butterfly matrix is then transformed into an orthogonality matrix. The orthogonal matrix can be used to update the weights within a neural network, making the BOFT approach more parameter-efficient than standard orthogonal finetuning. The butterfly matrix is used to create block-diagona matrices, which are used within the block-diagonal OFTE approach. The BOFT method is more parameter-efficient th block-diagonal OFT technique, but it is less efficien than standard OFT.<|endoftext|>
