--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data structure in computer science. The butterfly structure is used in a variety of applications, including fast Fourier transforms, sparse matrix representations, and graph algorithms. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is constructed by combining multiple dense matrices. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of dense blocks, each of which is connected to a number of other blocks. The BOFT approach is based on the butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix that can be constructed by combining several dense matrices. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that has a block-diagonal structure. The BOFT approach uses a block-diagonal matrix to represent the orthogonal matrix, which is used to update the weights of the model. The BOFT approach can be used to finetune large models with a small number of parameters. The BOFT approach has a parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of the block-diagonal approach, but it has a much faster training speed. The BOFT approach also has a parameter efficiency that exceeds that of the block-diagonality approach. The BOFT approach achieves a parameter efficiency that is on par with that of the block-diagnoal approach, but it has much faster training speeds. The BOFT approach outperforms the block-diagonal approach in terms of parameter efficiency. The BOFT approach, on the other hand, has a much faster training time. The BOFT approach's parameter efficiency is comparable to that of block-diagonal approaches, but it has a faster training time. The butterfly structure is an efficient data structure that is used in a variety

Introduction
The rapid development of large-scale models has led to significant improvements in the performance of natural language processing (NLP) models. However, the deployment of these models is often hampered by their large size, which makes them difficult to use in resource-constrained environments. As a result, it is necessary to develop methods for adapting these models to new tasks while keeping their size as small as possible. Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) is a technique that has been shown to be effective in this regard. PEFT is a method for adapting large pretrained models to new tasks while using a small number of trainable parameters. In this paper, we present a novel and efficient method called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft), which is based on the butterfly data structure. The butterfly data structure is a well-known data type that is used in a wide range of applications, including fast fourier transforms, sparse matrix representations and graph algorithms. The BOft method is based on the butterfly sparse matrix, which is constructed by combining several dense blocks. The butterfly matrix is composed of a set dense blocks, each of them is connected to a number other blocks. The BOft approach is based on the block-diagonal matrix, which is used for representing the orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix is used for updating the weights of the model during finetuning. The BOft approach can be used to fine-tune large models with a very small number of parameters. BOft approach has a parameter efficiency comparable to that of the diagonal block approach, but it has significantly faster training speed. BOft approach also has a parameter efficieny that exceeds that of the diagonal block. BOft approach achieves a parameter efficiency comparable to the diagonal block approach, while having much faster training speed. BOFT approach outperformed the diagonal block approach in terms of parameter efficieny. BOFT approach has a much faster training times. BOFT approach has parameter efficiency comparable to that block-diagonal approaches, however it has much faster training times. The butterfly structure is efficient data structure that is widely used in a variety of application areas, including fast fourier transform, sparse matrix representations and algorithms for graphs.

Related Work
In this section, we will discuss the related work in the area of parameter-efficient finetuning (Peft) and the orthogonal finetuning (Oft) approach.

Parameter-Efficient Finetuning
The most straightforward approach to adapting a pretrained model to a new task is to finetune the entire model. This approach, however, is not feasible for large models due to the large number of trainable parameters. As a result, a number of methods have been developed to reduce the number of trainable parameters while still achieving good performance. One of the most effective methods is to finetune only a small subset of the model's parameters, which is known as parameter-efficient finetuning. In this section, we will review some of the most important parameter-efficient finetuning approaches.
The first parameter-efficient finetuning approach is known as prompt tuning (Li et al., 2021). In this approach, the model is finetuned by adding a prompt to the input, which is a short text that provides information about the task. The prompt is added to the input at the beginning of the sentence, and the model is then finetuned to produce the correct output. This approach has been shown to be very effective, and it has been
