--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data structure in computer science. The butterfly structure is used in a variety of applications, including fast Fourier transforms, sparse matrix representations, and graph algorithms. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is constructed by combining multiple dense matrices. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of dense blocks, each of which is connected to a number of other blocks. The BOFT approach is based on the butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix that can be constructed by combining several dense matrices. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that has a block-diagonal structure. The BOFT approach uses a block-diagonal matrix to represent the orthogonal matrix, which is used to update the weights of the model. The BOFT approach can be used to finetune large models with a small number of parameters. The BOFT approach has a parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of the block-diagonal approach, but it has a much faster training speed. The BOFT approach also has a parameter efficiency that exceeds that of the block-diagonality approach. The BOFT approach achieves a parameter efficiency that is on par with that of the block-diagnoal approach, but it has much faster training speeds. The BOFT approach outperforms the block-diagonal approach in terms of parameter efficiency. The BOFT approach, on the other hand, has a much faster training time. The BOFT approach's parameter efficiency is comparable to that of block-diagonal approaches, but it has a faster training time. The butterfly structure is an efficient data structure that is used in a variety

Introduction
The rapid development of large-scale models has led to significant improvements in the performance of natural language processing (NLP) models. However, the deployment of these models is often hampered by their large size, which makes them difficult to use in resource-constrained environments. As a result, it is necessary to develop methods for adapting these models to new tasks while keeping their size as small as possible. Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) is a technique that has been shown to be effective in this regard. PEFT is a method for adapting large pretrained models to new tasks while using a small number of trainable parameters. In this paper, we present a novel and efficient method called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft), which is based on the butterfly data structure. The butterfly data structure is a well-known data type that is used in a wide range of applications, including fast fourier transforms, sparse matrix representations and graph algorithms. The BOft method is based on the butterfly sparse matrix, which is constructed by combining several dense blocks. The butterfly matrix is composed of a set dense blocks, each of them is connected to a number other blocks. The BOft approach is based on the block-diagonal matrix, which is used for representing the orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix is used for updating the weights of the model during finetuning. The BOft approach can be used to fine-tune large models with a very small number of parameters. BOft approach has a parameter efficiency comparable to that of the diagonal block approach, but it has significantly faster training speed. BOft approach also has a parameter efficieny that exceeds that of the diagonal block. BOft approach achieves a parameter efficiency comparable to the diagonal block approach, while having much faster training speed. BOFT approach outperformed the diagonal block approach in terms of parameter efficieny. BOFT approach has a much faster training times. BOFT approach has parameter efficiency comparable to that block-diagonal approaches, however it has much faster training times. The butterfly structure is efficient data structure that is widely used in a variety of application areas, including fast fourier transform, sparse matrix representations and algorithms for graphs.

Related Work
In this section, we will discuss the related work in the area of parameter-efficient finetuning (Peft). We will begin by discussing the approaches that are based on weight sharing, followed by the approaches that are based solely on the addition of new parameters. We will then discuss the approaches that are based only on the addition of new neurons. We will then discuss approaches that are based on the addition of new layers. We will then discuss methods that are based on the combination of these approaches. We will then discuss a variety of other approaches that are not included in the previous categories.

Weight Sharing
Weight sharing is a technique that is used to reduce the number of trainable parameters in a model. In this approach, the weights of the model are shared across different layers, and only the biases are updated during finetuning. In [1], the authors proposed a method for finetuning BERT models that is based on weight sharing. In this approach, a small number of trainable weights are added to the original pretrained model, and the rest of the weights are kept fixed. The authors of [2] proposed a method for finetting BERT models that is also based on weight sharing. This approach is based on the idea of adding a small number of trainable
