\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### Do GPT-4 evaluation biases invalidate the claim that Guanaco reaches 99.3% of ChatGPT performance?
Question:
The paper claims Guanaco reaches 99.3% of ChatGPT performance on Vicuna based on GPT-4 evaluations. However, in Section 5 ('Qualitative Analysis') and Section 5.2 ('Considerations'), they admit:

> "We observe strong order effects with GPT-4 assigning higher scores to the system appearing first..." and "GPT-4 assigns significantly higher scores to its own outputs compared to human ratings..."

If GPT-4 has a known bias toward its own outputs (or earlier positions), and they are comparing Guanaco directly against ChatGPT (which is likely GPT-3.5 or similar lineage), doesn't this introduce a systematic error? Even if they averaged orderings, if GPT-4 inherently prefers its own generation style or specific phrasing patterns found in ChatGPT responses over Guanaco's distinct style (trained on OASST1), wouldn't this metric artificially suppress Guanaco's score rather than accurately reflecting its quality? How can we trust this percentage without blind human verification?
Answer:
Your concern regarding the validity of the $99.3\%$ figure is well-founded, as the authors of the QLoRA paper explicitly acknowledge the existence of systematic biases in GPT-4 based evaluations within Section 5.2 ("Considerations"). Specifically, they note two primary issues: a strong order effect where GPT-4 assigns higher scores to the response appearing first in the prompt, and a tendency for GPT-4 to favor its own outputs (or those from its lineage, such as ChatGPT/GPT-3.5) compared to human ratings. However, the claim that Guanaco reaches $99.3\%$ of ChatGPT's performance remains statistically sound within the constraints of their methodology because they implemented specific countermeasures to mitigate these exact biases.

First, regarding the order bias you identified, the authors did not rely on a single ordering of responses. In Section 5 ("Evaluation"), under "Automated Evaluation," they state that to control for ordering effects, they recommend and implement reporting the mean score over both possible orders (Model A first vs. Model B first). By averaging these results, the positional advantage is neutralized mathematically, ensuring that neither Guanaco nor ChatGPT receives an artificial boost solely due to presentation order.

Second, concerning your hypothesis that GPT-4 might inherently prefer its own generation style or "suppress" Guanaco's score due to stylistic differences, the paper actually presents data suggesting that if such a bias exists, it works *against* Guanaco's reported score rather than inflating it artificially. In Section 5.2, the authors observe that "GPT-4 assigns significantly higher scores to its own outputs compared to human ratings," noting an Elo difference of roughly $1348$ (GPT-4 rated by itself) versus $1176$ (rated by humans), representing an additional $\sim20\%$ win probability advantage for GPT-4 when acting as its own judge. Since ChatGPT is closely related to GPT-4 (both being products of OpenAI), this self-preference bias likely favors ChatGPT over Guanaco in head-to-head comparisons. Consequently, if GPT-4 is biased toward ChatGPT's style or its own lineage, Guanaco's actual performance relative to ChatGPT could arguably be even higher than the reported $99.3\%$ once corrected for this evaluator preference.

The authors further contextualize this metric by emphasizing that absolute scores on a 1-to-10 scale are unreliable due to a lack of grounded definitions for what constitutes an "$8$." Instead, they prioritize Elo ratings derived from pairwise comparisons (tournament-style) where models compete directly on specific prompts. They report moderate agreement ($\tau=0.43$) between human and GPT-4 rankings at the system level, acknowledging discrepancies at the individual example level but maintaining that model-based evaluation serves as a "cheap and reasonable alternative" despite these imperfections. Therefore, while blind human verification would provide a gold standard for removing all evaluator bias entirely, the reported $99.3\%$ figure is not invalidated by these biases; rather, it represents a conservative estimate where known biases tend to disadvantage Guanaco slightly or are mitigated through averaging and pairwise Elo calculations rather than raw absolute scoring.