--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is based on the idea of using a small number of 8-bit weights (the "quantized weights") to represent the full 16-bit weights of the model. This is done by using a quantization scheme that maps the 16-bit weights to a smaller set of 8-bit weights. The paper also presents a new method for finetuning these 8-bit weights, called "quantized finetuning," which is much more efficient than standard finetuning. Finally, the paper presents a new method for training QLoRA, called "training with gradients," which is also much more efficient than standard training methods.

The paper is written by three authors: Jiajun Li, Yufeng Wang, and Xiangdong Zhang. Jiajun Li is a PhD student at the University of Toronto, where he is supervised by Prof. Andrew Moore. Yufeng Wang is a PhD student at Stanford University, where he is supervised jointly by Prof. Andrew Moore and Prof. Geoffrey Hinton. Xiangdong Zhang is a PhD student at Google Brain, where he is supervised both by Prof. Geoffrey Hinton and Prof. Andrew Moore.

The paper is available here:

The paper is also available on arXiv:

The paper is available on GitHub:

The paper is available in Chinese here:

The paper is available as a preprint here:

The paper is freely available on the web:

The paper is available for download here:

The paper is free to read online:

The paper is available to download here:

The paper has been accepted for publication in the journal "Neural Networks". The paper will be published in the journal in the near future.

The paper is available for free download here:

The paper will be published in a journal soon. The paper will be published soon in a journal.

The paper is available to read online here:

The paper is currently under review for publication in a journal. The paper will be submitted to a journal soon.

The paper is available online here:

The paper will soon be published in a journal. The journal will publish the paper soon.

The paper is currently under peer review. The paper will be reviewed soon.

The paper is under review for publication in the journal. The journal will review the paper soon.

The article is available online here:

This article is available online here:<|endoftext|>
