\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### What is the precise distinction between Step 1 and Step 2 in the Reasoning Instruction?
Question:
Section 3.1 describes a two-step reasoning process: (1) inferring causal relationships based on general knowledge without looking at examples, and (2) deducing specific rules using both Step 1 knowledge and few-shot examples.

I am struggling to visualize how this separation happens in the prompt. Does the LLM output an intermediate text block for Step 1 before seeing the examples, or are both steps part of a single Chain-of-Thought generation where the model is explicitly instructed to 'first think about general biology' before 'looking at these specific rows'? If it's a single pass, how does the model prevent the few-shot examples from contaminating the 'general knowledge' phase?
Answer:
The distinction between Step 1 and Step 2 in the reasoning instruction lies in the source of information the Large Language Model (LLM) is permitted to access and the specific cognitive task it performs at each stage, all within a single continuous generation pass. According to Section 3.1 ("Prompt Design for Extracting Rules"), the framework guides the LLM to mimic an expert human's workflow by structuring the prompt with explicit instructions that separate these phases logically, even though they occur sequentially in one output stream.

In Step 1, the LLM is instructed to infer causal relationships or tendencies between the input features and the target task solely based on its internal prior knowledge and common sense. Crucially, the prompt explicitly directs the model to perform this inference "without referring to example demonstrations." This constraint ensures that the model establishes a theoretical understanding of the domain (e.g., knowing generally that age correlates with certain diseases) before it sees any specific data points. By isolating this phase, the framework leverages the LLM's pre-trained world knowledge to form hypotheses about feature relevance without being immediately biased by the statistical noise or idiosyncrasies of the few-shot examples provided later in the context.

Step 2 occurs immediately after Step 1 in the generated text but shifts the model's focus to synthesis and deduction. In this phase, the LLM combines the general causal relationships identified in Step 1 with the actual "example demonstrations" (the few-shot training samples serialized into text) that are now visible in the prompt context. The goal here is to derive concrete, decisive rules for distinguishing classes. Because Step 1 has already primed the model to focus on semantically meaningful features based on general knowledge, Step 2 uses the specific examples to refine these ideas into executable logic rather than blindly fitting patterns to the limited data.

Regarding your concern about contamination or how this works in a single pass: The mechanism relies entirely on the instructional phrasing within the prompt rather than architectural barriers or separate API calls. The prompt includes an introductory sentence similar to Chain-of-Thought prompting, followed by explicit directives telling the model to "first think about..." (Step 1) ignoring the examples, and "then..." (Step 2) use the examples. While LLMs technically attend to all tokens in their context window simultaneously during generation, empirical results in chain-of-thought literature suggest that explicitly instructing the model to ignore specific sections until a later logical step effectively simulates a separated reasoning process. The ablation study in Section 4.2 confirms the necessity of this separation; removing Step 1 ("-Reasoning") leads to performance degradation, particularly in low-shot regimes, suggesting that without this initial grounding in general knowledge, the model is more prone to identifying spurious correlations in the few available examples. Thus, the "separation" is a logical constraint enforced by natural language instructions within a unified generative trajectory.