\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### How exactly does FeatLLM parse natural language rules into executable code without syntax errors?
Question:
In Section 3.2 ('Parsing rules for feature generation'), the authors mention that LLM outputs can be noisy (e.g., using 'greater than' instead of '$>$'). They propose using the LLM itself to generate Python code via a prompt, which is then executed with `exec()`. 

My confusion lies in the reliability of this step. If the initial rule generation produces ambiguous natural language, doesn't asking the LLM to convert that same ambiguous text into code just propagate the error? How does the prompt ensure that the generated code is syntactically valid and logically equivalent to the intended rule, especially when dealing with complex categorical conditions?
Answer:
The reliability of converting ambiguous natural language rules into executable code in FeatLLM stems from a strategic shift in responsibility: rather than attempting to build a rigid, deterministic parser that must handle every linguistic variation, the authors leverage the LLM's own semantic understanding to act as the translator. As noted in Section 3.2 under "Parsing rules for feature generation," the system acknowledges that LLM outputs are inherently noisy, often containing variations like "greater than" instead of the symbolic operator `$>$`. To resolve this without propagating errors, FeatLLM employs a secondary prompting step where the *same* LLM (or a capable code-generation model) is tasked with translating its own previously generated natural language rules into Python code.

This approach works because modern LLMs are trained on vast corpora of code and possess a robust ability to map semantic intent to syntactic structure, even when the input description is informal. The prompt for this translation step explicitly includes the function signature, input/output descriptions, and the specific natural language rule inferred in the earlier stage. By framing the task as "generate simple code that implements this logic" rather than "parse this string," the system bypasses the fragility of traditional regular-expression-based parsers. The LLM effectively performs semantic disambiguation internally; if it understands that "age greater than 50" logically equates to `$age > 50$`, it generates the syntactically correct Python snippet directly. This creates a self-correcting loop where the model's broad training on coding tasks compensates for the lack of strict formal grammar in its initial rule generation.

Regarding your concern about complex categorical conditions, the framework mitigates logical equivalence errors through two mechanisms outlined in the paper. First, during the initial rule generation (Section 3.1), the "Response instruction" explicitly guides the LLM to adhere to specific formats based on feature types, reducing the likelihood of fundamentally flawed logic before the coding step even begins. Second, and perhaps more importantly, the architecture does not rely on any single rule being perfect. The "Ensembling with bagging" section (Section 3.2) explains that FeatLLM repeats the entire process multiple times (e.g., 20 trials) with randomized temperatures and shuffled few-shot examples. This leverages the concept of self-consistency; while one trial might generate a slightly off-code snippet for a complex category, other trials are likely to generate correct variations. The downstream linear model then learns weights $\mathbf{w}_k$ for these binary features, effectively down-weighting or ignoring features derived from erroneous code while amplifying those from accurate rules. Thus, occasional syntax or logic failures in individual code generations are treated as noise and filtered out by the ensemble and weighting mechanism, ensuring the final prediction remains robust.