--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be helpful to you.

What is Orthogonal Finetuning?

Orthogonal Finetuning is a method to finetune a pretrained model. It is a parameter-efficient method. It is parameter-efficient because it only needs to finetune a small number of parameters. The number of parameters to finetune is equal to the number of trainable parameters in the original pretrained model. This is different from other finetuning methods. For example, in the paper "Finetuning a Language Model with Sublinear Memory Complexity", the number of trainable parameters is much smaller than the number of parameters in the original pretrained language model. In the paper "Efficient Finetuning of Large Language Models", the number of trainable parameter is also much smaller than the number in the original pretrained language models.

How does Orthogonal Finetuning work?

Orthogonal Finetunning works by adding a small number of trainable parameters to the pretrained model. The trainable parameters are added to the original pretrained model. The trainable parameter is a matrix. The matrix is added to the original pretrained matrix. The matrix is orthogonal. The matrix is orthogonal because it is multiplied by its transpose. The matrix is multiplied by its transpose to make it orthogonal. The matrix is multiplied to its transpose to make it symmetric. The matrix is symmetric because it is multiplied by itself. The matrix is multiplied itself to make it symmetric. After the matrix is added to the pretrained matrix, the new matrix is orthogonal. The new matrix is orthogonal because it has been multiplied by its transpose. After the new matrix is added to the old matrix, the new matrix and the old matrix are orthogonal. The new matrix and the old matrices are orthogonal because they are multiplied by their transpose. The new matrix and old matrix are multiplied by their transpose to make them orthogonal. The new matrix has the same dimension as the old matrix. The new matrix has a dimension that is the same as the old matrix. After the new matrix and the original matrix are multiplied by their transposes, the new matrix and old matrix become orthogonal. The new matrix becomes orthogonal because it is multiplied with its transpose. The old matrix becomes orthogonal because it has been multiply by its transpose. The new matrix is added to old matrix. The new and old matrix are added together. The new and old matrices are added together to make them orthogonal. After the new matrix has been added to the old matrix and the new matrix and old matrices are orthogonal, the new matrix and original matrix are multiplied by the transpose of the new matrix. The new matrix and original matrix is multiplied by the transpose of new matrix. The new and original matrix is multiplied with the transpose of the new matrices to make them orthogonal. This is how Orthogonal Finetuning works.

What is the difference between Orthogonal Finetuning and other finetuning methods?

Orthogonal Finetunig is different from other finetting methods because it only needs to add a small number of trainable parameter to the original pretrained model to make it trainable. The number of trainable parameters is equal to the number in the original model. This is different than other finetuning methods where the number of trainable parameters are much smaller than the number original parameters. For example, in "Finetuning a language model with sublinear memory complexity", the number of trainable paramters is much smaller than the original model. In "Efficient finetuning of large language models", the number of trainable params is also much smaller than original model. Orthogonal Finetuning is different because it only needs to change a small number of parameters to make the model trainable. This is different than the other finetuning methods.

What is the advantage of Orthogonal Finetuning over other finetuning methods

Orthogonal Finetuning has an advantage over other finetuning method because it is parameter efficient. It only needs to change a few parameters to make the model finetuned. This is different than finetuning methods that need to change a lot of parameters to make the models finetuned. For example, in Efficient Finetuning of Large language models, the number of trainable parameters was much smaller than the original pretrained model. In Finetuning a language model, the number of trainable parameter was much smaller than the number parameters in the original pretrained models. Orthogonal Finetunig only needs to change a very small number of parameters to finentune the model. This is an advantage over other finetting methods.

What is the disadvantage of Orthogonal Finetunng?

Orthogonal Finetung has a disadvantage over other finetuning because it is not as effective as other finetuning methods in terms of performance. For example, in Finetuning a language models, the finetuned model was not as good as the original pretrained model. It was not as good as other finetuning models. In Efficient Finetuning of large language model, the finetuned models were not as good as the other finetuning models.

What is the difference in performance between Orthogonal Finetunign and other finetuning
