\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: GRPO}

### fastText-based data selection: what were the negatives and how did you avoid bias?
Question:
To train the math classifier, you used 500k positive samples from OpenWebMath and 500k negatives sampled from Common Crawl. 
- How were the negatives chosen (random web pages, or curated to be hard negatives like code, finance, physics)? 
- Could negative sampling bias the classifier toward particular math styles (e.g., OpenWebMath-like) and miss high-quality but stylistically different math sources? 
- Any analysis of precision/recall against a human-labeled held-out set?
Answer:
Short answer: In the paper the negative examples for the initial fastText classifier were drawn from Common Crawl (i.e., web pages outside the OpenWebMath seed) as a broadly representative “non-math” set rather than a hand-curated collection of adversarial/hard negatives. The authors mitigated sampling bias with an iterative seed-enrichment + manual annotation loop and human vetting of mined positives, and they validated the selection pipeline indirectly by downstream pre‑training results rather than by publishing a numeric precision/recall for the classifier. The paper also explicitly acknowledges remaining data-selection bias (e.g., weakness on some geometry/theorem problems) and discusses that as a limitation and an area for improvement.

What the paper actually did for negatives
The fastText classifier was trained initially with 500k positive samples from OpenWebMath and 500k negatives sampled from Common Crawl. Those negatives are described as “another 500,000 web pages from Common Crawl” (i.e., broadly sampled web pages), not as a curated set of linguistically or domain-specific hard negatives (code, finance, physics) in the first pass. After the first recall pass the authors did domain-level analysis on Common Crawl, identified domains with high recall rates, and then manually annotated URLs inside those domains to enrich the seed positives. That iterative loop (train fastText → recall CC → find domains with high coverage → manually label URL subsets → retrain) is the main mechanism they used to reduce bias in what counts as a positive math page.

How they tried to avoid classifier bias toward “OpenWebMath-like” style
The paper recognizes the risk that a classifier trained solely on one seed corpus will overfit to that seed’s style. To mitigate this they used the following practical steps:

1. Iterative seed expansion. After the first recall pass they computed, per domain, the fraction of pages recalled and labeled domains with $>10\%$ recall as math-related. They then manually annotated math-related URL patterns inside those domains and added uncollected pages matching those patterns into the positive seed for retraining. This broadens the positive examples beyond the original OpenWebMath style.

2. Human annotation of mined positives. Mined positives were not used blindly: the pipeline includes human annotation/refinement of collected pages and then retraining the classifier with that enhanced labeled set.

3. Ranking + top-$k$ selection. They ranked recalled pages by fastText score and kept only the top-ranking pages (and experimented with different volumes: top 40B, 80B, 120B, 160B tokens) so that only high-confidence pages were added to the math corpus.

4. Multilingual coverage. The final corpus is multilingual (English and Chinese prominent), which reduces English‑style-only bias.

5. Benchmark decontamination. They filtered out pages that contain substrings from held benchmarks (10‑gram matching rules described) to avoid contamination and spurious performance.

Limitations and observed residual bias
The authors explicitly note that despite the above steps some bias remained: in dry runs the model “cannot handle problems related to triangles and ellipses,” which they attribute to data selection bias in pre‑training and fine‑tuning. So the pipeline reduced but did not eliminate stylistic/domain bias (e.g., specific geometry or theorem styles under‑represented).

Classifier performance reporting in the paper
The paper does not publish explicit per‑class precision/recall or ROC numbers for the fastText classifier on a human‑labeled held‑out test set. Instead the validation of the data selection pipeline is reported indirectly through downstream experiments: pretraining models on the mined DeepSeekMath Corpus yielded clear improvements on many math benchmarks compared to other corpora (OpenWebMath, MathPile, Proof‑Pile‑2), and iterative refinement plus human annotation was used in the pipeline. In short, the paper validates the selection quality by showing that models trained on the resulting corpus perform better, rather than by providing an isolated classifier confusion matrix.

If you need concrete classifier metrics (recommended)
If you want to be sure the classifier isn’t systematically excluding whole classes/styles of math, you should build and report a small human‑labeled held‑out set stratified by style (e.g., lecture notes, forum posts, LaTeX papers, problem sets, geometry diagrams, programmatic math, math in other disciplines). Evaluate the fastText model with standard metrics (precision, recall, F1) and analyze false negatives by category. In practice I’d recommend:

- Make a stratified human-labeled test set covering suspected under‑represented styles.  
- Report precision/recall at several score thresholds and the recall of the top‑k selection used in the pipeline.  
- Inspect false negatives for clusters (e.g., geometry with diagrams, short LaTeX snippets, math embedded in physics posts) and add representative positives to the seed to retrain.  
- Optionally include deliberately hard negatives (code blocks, finance tables, formula‑like markup that is not math) to improve precision without harming recall.

Practical suggestions (consistent with the paper’s direction)
To further reduce style bias, the paper’s iterative manual‑annotation approach can be extended by deliberately adding hard negatives and diversified positives. For example, explicitly include code-heavy pages, finance pages with numeric tables, physics/engineering pages, and short-form forum content in the negative pool so the classifier learns to discriminate math content from formula‑like noise. Also, incorporate active‑learning: surface classifier low‑confidence pages for annotation so you efficiently improve the decision boundary where it matters.

Summary
The negatives were initially broad Common Crawl pages (not a curated hard‑negative set). The authors addressed potential bias by iteratively expanding and human‑annotating the positive seed, ranking and keeping top scoring pages, and validating the corpus by downstream pretraining gains rather than by reporting classifier precision/recall. They acknowledge residual selection bias (notably some geometry/theorem weaknesses) and point to further seed diversification and annotation as the remedy. If you need explicit classifier precision/recall you’ll have to build a stratified human‑labeled held‑out set and evaluate/report those metrics—this is not provided in the paper.
