\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### How exactly does the 'two-step reasoning' in the prompt prevent spurious correlations compared to standard CoT?
Question:
I am trying to understand the core innovation of the prompt design in FeatLLM. The paper mentions dividing the inference into two steps: first inferring causal relationships based on general knowledge, and second deriving rules based on few-shot examples. Why is this separation necessary? Does this explicitly force the model to ignore features that don't align with its priors before looking at the data, or is it just a heuristic? How does this differ fundamentally from a standard Chain-of-Thought prompt that asks for reasoning in one go?
Answer:
The 'two-step reasoning' mechanism in \textsf{FeatLLM} acts as a structural intervention that separates the activation of the model's parametric prior knowledge from the induction of patterns from the limited empirical data, thereby mitigating spurious correlations that plague standard Chain-of-Thought (CoT) in few-shot regimes. In a standard CoT prompt, the model is typically asked to reason and derive rules simultaneously while viewing the few-shot examples. This creates a cognitive conflict where the model must rely heavily on surface-level statistical associations present in the small dataset to satisfy the immediate request for a solution. Since few-shot data contains noise and coincidental alignments (spurious correlations), a standard CoT approach often latches onto these irrelevant features simply because they appear correlated in the provided examples, especially when the model lacks sufficient evidence to override these superficial patterns with deeper logic.

The innovation in \textsf{FeatLLM} lies in forcing a temporal decoupling of these processes. In Step 1, the prompt explicitly instructs the LLM to infer causal relationships or tendencies based $*$only$*$ on general world knowledge and feature definitions, strictly forbidding reference to the few-shot examples at this stage. This step leverages the vast pre-trained priors of the LLM to establish a "ground truth" regarding what features are logically relevant to the task (e.g., knowing that age is medically relevant to heart failure). By isolating this step, the model filters out features that lack semantic justification in its internal knowledge base before it ever sees the sparse data. Only in Step 2 does the model incorporate the few-shot examples to refine these initial hypotheses into concrete decision rules.

This separation functions as an explicit regularization mechanism rather than a mere heuristic. It prevents the "contamination" of prior knowledge by noisy data signals early in the reasoning chain. If a feature is irrelevant according to general knowledge but happens to correlate perfectly with labels in just five training examples, a standard CoT might treat this correlation as definitive proof of causality due to its reliance on pattern matching within the prompt context. Conversely, \textsf{FeatLLM}'s two-step process requires that any rule derived from data must also be consistent with or at least not contradicted by established domain priors derived in Step 1. The paper validates this empirically: when spurious columns were added to datasets, \textsf{FeatLLM} exhibited significantly less performance degradation compared to baselines because it rarely generated rules based on those irrelevant columns---their lack of alignment with general knowledge caused them to be discarded during Step 1 filtering. Thus, unlike standard CoT which treats all input tokens equally during reasoning, \textsf{FeatLLM}'s architecture imposes an "inductive bias" where valid rules must survive both semantic plausibility checks (Step 1) and empirical verification (Step 2), effectively reducing variance and overfitting inherent in low-data scenarios.