----- Row 105 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although physical harm is not necessary to satisfy the persecution prong, id. at 804, the suffered harm must be offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats, Brandy v. Holder, 590 F. App’x 744, 747 (10th Cir. 2014).
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, and in the context of the persecution prong in the Tenth Circuit, the suffered harm must be "offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats".
target: offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats

----- Row 110 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As physically stressful or psychologically unsettling some events may be, we have rarely, if ever, granted asylum based on threats and emotional or psychological harm alone.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit discussed whether threats combined only with emotional or psychological harm are enough to support asylum and said it has granted asylum on that basis alone "rarely, if ever."
target: rarely, if ever

----- Row 114 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As Petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument, our case law has rejected asylum applications in cases involving more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument that the court’s case law had rejected "asylum applications" in cases involving even more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm.
target: "asylum applications"

----- Row 127 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we limit our review to whether Petitioners establish a nexus between their alleged persecution and their political opinion.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after noting that the petitioners were arguing the nexus requirement and limiting its review to one issue, the court focused on whether the alleged persecution was on account of "their political opinion".
target: their political opinion

----- Row 128 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, Petitioners assert that they were harmed by Don Rafa and his associates because they worked on a campaign for a rival of the current president of Colombia.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Petitioners argued that their persecution was connected to their political opinion because they worked on a campaign for a rival of the current president of Colombia, and they said they were harmed because of that campaign work by "Don Rafa and his associates".
target: Don Rafa and his associates

----- Row 136 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So here, Petitioners must demonstrate that their political opinion was or will be at least one central reason the persecutors targeted or will target them.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in evaluating the nexus requirement for Petitioners’ claim, Petitioners must demonstrate that at least one central reason for the persecutors targeting them was "their political opinion".
target: their political opinion

----- Row 140 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners do not point to any evidence in the record that suggests Don Rafa was behind those initial politically affiliated threats.
fact: In the opinion "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing whether Petitioners showed that their political opinion was a central reason for the harm they suffered, Petitioners fail to connect the initial politically affiliated threats to "Don Rafa" through record evidence.
target: "Don Rafa"

----- Row 164 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners testified that they spoke to two individual police officers who said that Petitioners should not seek trouble—but there is nothing to show that this reflects the Colombian government’s position.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing whether Petitioners’ limited efforts to seek government help showed that the Colombian government had notice of the alleged persecution, Petitioners said they spoke to "two individual police officers."
target: two individual police officers

----- Row 178 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And Petitioners cannot show that the Colombian government was, or would be, unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners had it known about the threats they received. See Chhetri, 844 F. App’x at 27–28 (finding there was insufficient evidence that the government was unable or unwilling to protect an applicant, particularly given the applicant declined to contact the police because he believed the persecutors were “part of the government”).
fact: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court held that Petitioners were unable to show the Colombian government was, or would be, "unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners".
target: unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners

