\title{Blogs about the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

# Math in Web Pages: How DeepSeek Math Found Genius in Sea of Data

The idea that a large language model could master complex mathematical reasoning without access to curated textbooks or dense research papers like arXiv might sound counterintuitive. However, the DeepSeekMath paper challenges this assumption, demonstrating that vast quantities of publicly available web data from the Common Crawl contain untapped potential for mathematical education. By refining their approach to data selection and refining training pipelines, the team created DeepSeekMath 7B, a model that rivals significantly larger closed-source systems on competition-level tasks.

The core innovation lies not in the model architecture itself, but in a meticulously engineered pipeline for mining mathematics from the noise of the modern web. The authors posited that math-related content accessible to search engines has been underestimated. To test this, they developed an iterative data collection process that extracts billions of tokens specifically focused on mathematical reasoning, syntax, and logic. This strategy resulted in a corpus containing 120 billion tokens, a dataset nearly nine times larger than the previous state-of-the-art open-source math corpus, OpenWebMath, and seven times larger than the dataset used by Minerva.

The mining process is far more sophisticated than a simple keyword filter. It begins with an iterative classification loop designed to progressively improve its identification of high-quality math content. The team starts with a seed corpus of high-quality mathematical texts from OpenWebMath. They use these samples to train a fastText-based classifier, configuring it with specific hyperparameters such as a vector dimension of 256 and word n-gram lengths up to 3. In the first iteration, this model scans deduplicated Common Crawl pages—reduced to roughly 40 billion HTML pages through near-deduplication techniques—and retrieves those ranking highest on their probability score for being mathematical content.

Recognizing that the initial model was not diverse enough to capture all types of math content, the researchers implemented a feedback loop to enrich their strategy. They analyzed domain popularity within Common Crawl and identified URLs where over 10% of pages were already flagged as math-related by their initial run. By manually annotating URLs within these identified domains (such as mathoverflow.net) and linking them to related content they had previously missed, they expanded their seed corpus. This enhanced dataset retrained the classifier, allowing subsequent discoveries to be even more accurate. After four such iterations, the collected webpages totaled 35.5 million pages with over 120 billion tokens, with diminishing returns noted after the third iteration where nearly 98% of relevant data had already been captured.

One of the most surprising findings from this pre-training phase is what does *not* matter.Conventionally, arXiv papers—the primary source for advanced mathematics—are considered essential for training models in STEM fields. The DeepSeekMath experiments revealed otherwise; training on cleaned arXiv PDFs actually yielded no notable improvements on standard quantitative reasoning benchmarks like GSM8K or MATH compared to models trained primarily on web-derived math data. While writing code might seem unconnected to pure math theory, starting pre-training with code significantly boosted mathematical reasoning capabilities later on when mixed with math data or used as a prior phase trainerhiperic.h

Perhaps most crucially is what GitHub: Yet when code training was followed by dedicated math pre-training it improved performance especially when tasks required external tools and banned then simultaneously maintained coding skills suggesting synergy between these domains rather than trade-offs.Moreover even though much focus lies purely on English language learning resources pre-training process revealed strength multilingual capabilities particularly because it included non-English pages during collection phase which surprised researchers who traditionally focused heavily on English-only datasets deep learning deepseekmath model showed notable performance improvements Chinese benchmarks suchso Gaokao MathQa.clozea and CMATH outperforming single-language counterparts greatly hinting potential future applications across linguistic boundariesglobal perspectivesin educational contexts thereby bridging knowledge gaps globally

To ensure fairness during evaluation prevent benchmark contamination via careful post-processing steps filtering out any text segments containing exact matches from earlier versions training sets used GSM8K MATH training or Chinese equivalent datasets like Lila OOD飛ばUsing this robust infrastructural foundation combined domain specific instruction tuning post processing techniques based on Chain-of-thought Program-of-thought approaches adopted GRPO reinforcement learning algorithm which eliminated need critic network associated additional computational cost thus enabling efficient scaling both computational resources memory usage overall system efficiency gaining notch competitive landscape large language models today proving size parameters alone do dictate success quality mattering equally ultimately driving advancements broadly approaches problem solving across diverse industries applications globally benefiting humanity whole society at large