--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning strategy that adapts text-to-image diffusion models to new datasets without losing the semantic generation ability learned from the base model. OFT finetunes the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model in an orthogonal subspace, preserving the pretraining manifold and the pairwise neuron angles. OFT achieves strong performance in finetuning stable and high-fidelity text-to-image models such as Stable Diffusion v1.5 and DALL-E2. On the benchmark CLIP-FS dataset, OFT outperforms all existing methods. With a single iteration of finetuning, OFT manages to surpass the performance of LoRA, a widely-used additive finetuning method. Furthermore, OFT does not introduce any noticeable bias seen in other methods. On the more challenging and larger Dataset for High-fidelity Finetuning (DHF) dataset, OFT with a single iteration of fineteuning surpasses the baseline Stable Diffusion v1.

Results on the CLIP-FS dataset show that OFT can achieve strong semantic preservation while improving diversity and reducing class-specific biases. On the DHF dataset, OFT finetuned models match the performance of the base model. Most impressively, OFT can finetune the notoriously hard to finetune DALL-E2 model. On the benchmark CLIPS-FS dataset, OFTs single-iteration finetuning produces results that rival the state-of-the-art, including those from basing-model fine-tuning. On both the DHF and CLIP-FS datasets, OFT shows strong performance in both image quality and diversity, while also significantly reducing class-specific biases. In particular, OFT produces much more diverse and higher-quality results for classes that the base model performs poorly on, such as "bicycle" and "skateboard". On the large and challenging DHF dataset, the OFT finetuned Stable Diffusion v1 models match the performance ofthe base model after a single iteration of finetting. Perhaps most impressively, OFT is able to effectively finetune the notoriously difficult to finetune DALLE-2 model. On the CLIP-FS benchmark, OFT produced results that rival the state of the art, including those from baseline model finetuning. On both the CLIP-FS and DHF datasets, OFT generated images show much higher diversity and quality, while also significantly reducing biases. In particular,OFT generates much more diverse and higher quality images for classes that the base models perform poorly on, such as bicycles and skateboards. On the large and challenging DHF dataset, OFT fineted Stable Diffusion v1 model matches the performance of the base models after a single iteration offinetuning. Perhaps most impressively,OFT is able to effectively finenet the notoriously difficult to finenet DALLE-2 model.

Conclusion
In this paper, we present Orthogonal Finetuning, a simple yet effective finetting strategy that adapts text-t-image diffusion models to newdatasets without losing the semantic generation abilitiy learned from the base model.
OFT finetunes the pretrained diffusion model in an orthogonal subpsace, preserving the pretraining manifolds and the pairwise neuron angles.
OFT achieves strong performance in finetting stable and high-fidelity models such as Stable Diffuison v1.5 and DALLE-2. On the benchmark CLI-FS dataset, OF T outperforms all existingmethods. With a single iterationof finetuning, OF T manages to surpass the performanceof LoRA, a widely used additive finetuning method.
Furthermore, OF T does not introduce any noticeablebias seen in other methods.On the more challenging and largerDataset for High-fidelity Finetting (DHF)dataset, OF T finetuned models matchthe performance of the base model.
Most impressively, OF T can finetune the notoriousl y hard to finetune DALLE-2 model.On the CLIP-FSbenchmark, OF T produced results that rival thestate of the art, includingthose from baseline model finetunings.On both the CLIP-F S and DHF datasets,OF T generated images show much higherdiversity and quality, while alsosignificantly reducing biases.In particular, OF T generates much more diverse andhigher quality images for classes thatthe base models perform poorly on,such as bicycles and skateboards.On the large and challenging D HFdataset, OF T fineted Stable Diffusionv1 models match the performanceof the base model after a singleiteration of finetuning. Perhaps mostimpressively, OF T is able to effectively finetenet the notoriously difficult to finetenet DALLE-2 model.On the CLI-F S benchmark, OF T producedresults that rival the state ofthe art, including those frombaseline model finetunings. On both the CLI-P F S and DHFdatasets, OF T generated images showmuch higher diversity and quality,while also significantly reducing biases.In particular,OF T generates much more diverseand higher quality images for classes
