--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel orthogonal finetuning method that is parameter-efficient and can be applied to any orthogonal initialization. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a factorization of the model parameters to reduce the number of parameters that need to be finetuned. This factorization is based on the butterfly decomposition of matrices, which is a well-known technique in linear algebra. BOFT is also parameter-efficient because it only finetunes a subset of the model parameters, which are the ones that are not in the butterfly decomposition. This subset of parameters is much smaller than the total number of parameters in the model, which means that BOFT is more efficient than other finetuning methods that finetune all of the model parameters. BOFT can be applied to any model that has an orthogonal initialization, which means that it can be used with any model that uses a weight matrix that is orthogonal to its transpose. This includes many popular models such as ResNet, DenseNet, and Inception. BOFT is also more efficient than other fineting methods that are based on orthogonal initialization, such as OFT and its block-diagonal variant. BOFT is more efficient because it uses a factorized decomposition of the model parameters, while OFT and its block diagonal variant finetune all of them. BOFT is also faster than OFT and its block diagoanl variant because it only finetune a subset of the model parameers, which are the ones not in the butterfly decomposition.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning vs. OFT" presents a novel and effecient method for adapting large models. The method is called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft), and it is parameter-efficient because it only needs to finetune a subset o the model parameters. This subset is much smaller than the tota number of parameters in the modle, which means that BOft is more efficient than other methods that finetune the entire model. BOft can be applied to any modle that has an orthogonal initialization. This includes many popular modles such as ResNet, Densenet, and Inception. The paper also compares BOft to other finetuning methods, and shows that it is more efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal variant. BOft is also faster than OFt and its block-diagonal varaint because it only finetun a subset of the model paramters, which are the ones in the butterfly decomposition.

In this paper, we present a novel and efficient method called Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT) for adapting large models. OFT is parameter-efficient because it finetunes a subset o the model paramters, rather than the entire model. This subset is much smaler than the tota number o paramters in the model, which mean that OFT is more efficient than other method that finetune the entir model. OFT can be applied to any mdoel that has an orthogonal initialization; this includes many popular modles, such as ResNet, Denesnet, and Inception. We also compare OFT to other finetuning method, and show that it is more efficient that OFT and its block-digonal variant. OFT is also faster than OF and its block-diagonal variante because it only finetuns a subset o the model parameers. These parameers are the ones in the buttefly decomposition.

The paper "Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT): Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Fine-Tuning" presents a novel and effective method for adapting large models to new tasks. The method is called BOFT, and it is parameter-efficient becuase it only needs to finete a subset of the model parameter. This subset is much small than the total number of parameter in the model, which meens that BOFT is more effecient than other methods that finete the entire model. BOFT can be applyed to any model that has a orthogonal initialization. This includes popular models such as Resnet, DenseNet, and inception. The paper also compares BFT to other finetuning methos, and shows that it more effecient than OFT and its blok-diagonal variant. BOF is also faster than OFB and its blok-diagnoal variant because it only finete a subset of model parameters, which are in the butterfly decomposition.

This paper presents a novel and efficient finetuning method for adapting large models called Orthogonal Butterfly (OBFT). OBFT is parameter-efficient because only a subset of the model's parameters need to be finetunned, which is much smaller than the entire model. OBFT can be applied to models with any orthogonal initialization, including popular models such as ResNets, DenseNets, and Inceptions. OBFT is also more efficient and faster than other finetuning approaches, such as OFT, because it only finetunds a subset of the model’s parameters.<|endoftext|>
