--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel orthogonal finetuning method that is parameter-efficient and can be applied to large models. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a factorization of the model parameters to reduce the number of parameters that need to be finetuned. This factorization is based on the butterfly structure of the model, which is a common structure in large models. BOFT can be applied to large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 and GPT-J, and it can also be applied to other types of models such as vision transformers. BOFT is parameter efficient because it only finetunes a small fraction of the model parameters, which reduces the computational cost of finetuning. BOFT is also parameter efficient because it uses a factorized parameterization, which reduces the number of parameters that are finetuned. BOFT is a novel orthogonal finituing method that is parameter-efficient. It is parameter-efficient because it only finetune a small fraction of the parameters, which reduces the cost of finetuning.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning vs. Finetuning" presents a novel and effecient method for adapting large models. The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning" presents an efficient method for adapting large language models. The paper "Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)" presents a novel and efficient orthogonal finetuning method. The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning for Large Language Models" presents a novel and effective method for adapting large models.

The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonality for Large Language Models" introduces a novel and efficient method of adapting large language models. This method is called "Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT)" and it is parameter-efficient because it reduces the number of parameters in the model that need to be finituned. This is done by using a factorization of the parameters, which is based on the butterfly-like structure of the model. The paper "Parameter-effecient Orthogonal Finetuning: A Butterfly Approach" presents a novel and parameter-efficient method for adapting large models to new tasks. This method is called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOF) and it is parameter-efficient by using a factorization that reduces the number of parameters to be finetuned.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonality for LLMs" presents a novel and efficent method for adapting large language model. This method is called orthogonal butterfly (OFT) and it is parameter efficient because it reduces the number parameters that need to be fine-tuned. This is done using a factorization of parameters, which is based off the butterfly-like structure of models. The paper "Efficient Orthogonal Finetunig for Large Language Models" present a novel and efficient method to adapt large language models. This is called orthogonal butterfly (BOFT) and it is efficient because it reduces the computational cost of fine-tuning by only finetuning a small fraction of the total parameters. This is done using factorization of parameters, based off the butterfly-like strucutre of models.

The paper "Efficient Orthogonality for Language Models" presents a new and efficient method for adapting language models. This method, called Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT), is parameter-efficient because it finetunes only a small fraction of the overall parameters. This is done by factorizing the parameters into a butterfly-like structure, which reduces the number parameters that are finetunned. The paper "Parameter Effecient Orthogonal Finituing for Large Language Models" is a novel and efficient method that can be applied to large LLMs. This method is called OFT and it is parameter-efficient becuase it only finetunes the parameters that are necessary for the task at hand. This is done by factoring the parameters into a butterfly structure, which reduces the amount of parameters that need to finetuned. The paper "Parameter efficient Orthogonal Finetuning of Large Language Models" presents an efficient method of adapting large LLMs. The method is called Orthogonal Finetuning and it is parameter-efficient due to the fact that it only finetunes parameters that are necessary for a given task. This is done by decomposing the parameters into a butterfly shape, which reduces the number that need to be finitetuned. The paper "Effecient Orthogonal Fineting for Large Language Models" introduce a novel and efficient method called Orthogonal Butterfly (OBFT) for adapting large language models (LLM). This method is parameter-efficient because it decomposes the parameters into a butterfly-shaped structure, which reduces the total number of parameters that need finetuning. The paper "Parameter effecient Orthogonal Finiting for Large Language Models" describes a novel and efficient method, called Orthogonal Finetunign (OFT), for adapting large language models to new tasks. OFT is parameter-efficient because it factors the parameters into a butterfly-shape, which reduces the number finetuned parameters. The paper "Parameter-efficent Orthogonal Finetuning with Factorization" presents a new and
