--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

What is Parameter-Efficient Finetuning?

Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) is a method that can reduce the number of trainable parameters while finetuning a pretrained model. It can be divided into two categories: low-rank parameter update and sparse parameter update.

Low-rank Parameter Update

Low-rank parameter update is to update the pretrained model with a low-rank matrix. The low-rank matrix can be generated by some methods, such as Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA), and Factorization.

Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT)

Orthogonal Finetuning is a method that can generate a low-rank matrix with orthogonal matrices. It can be divided to two steps:

  1. Generate a set of orthogonal matrices with a certain dimension.
  2. Multiply the orthogonal matrices to get a low-rank matrix.

The first step can be done by Orthogonal Group (O(n)) or Block Orthogonal Group (BO(n)). The second step can be done by Kronecker Product or Tensor Product.

Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA)

Canonical Correlation Analysis is a method that can find a pair of linear transformation to maximize the correlation between two sets of data. It can be divided in two steps:

  2. Find a pair of linear transformation that can maximize the correlation between the transformed data.

The first step can also be done by Orthogonal group (O(n)) or block orthogonal group (BO(n)). The difference is that the first step of CCA is to transform the input data to a canonical space, while the first step of OFT is to transform the weight matrix to a canonical space.

The second step of CCA is different from OFT. It is to find a pair of linear transform that can maximize the correlation. The linear transform can be represented as a matrix. The matrix multiplication is equivalent to the Kronecker product of two matrices.

Factorization Method

Factorization method is to generate a low-rank parameter with the multiplication of several matrices. The matrices are usually called factors. The factorization method can be divided into three categories: tensor factorization, bilinear factorization, and sparse factorization.

Tensor Factorization

Tensor factorization is to generate a tensor with the multiplication of several tensors. The tensors are usually called factors. For example, Tucker decomposition, CANDECOMP/PARAFAC (CP), and Tensor Train (TT) are all tensor factorization methods.

Bilinear Factorization

Bilinear factorization is to generate an n-dimensional matrix with the multiplication of two n/2-dimensional matrices. For example, Kronecker product and matrix product are both bilinear factorization methods.

Sparse Factorization

Sparse factorization is to generate the original matrix with the multiplication of several sparse matrices. For example, Low-rank plus sparse decomposition (LR+S) and Low-rank plus block-diagonal (LR+BD) are both sparse factorization methods.

Sparse Parameter Update

Sparse parameter update is to update a pretrained model with a sparse matrix. The sparse matrix can be generated by a certain method, such as block-diagonal matrix, low-rank plus sparse matrix, and low-rank plus block-diagona matrix.

Block-diagonal Matrix

Block-diagonal matrix is a matrix that has many zero blocks on the diagonal. For example, the following matrix is a block-diagonal matrix:

[[0, 1],
 [0, 0]]

Low-rank Plus Sparse Matrix

Low-rank plus sparse matrix is to update the pretrained matrix with a low-rank part and a sparse part. For example, the follow matrix is a low-rank plus sparse matirx:

[[1, 0],
 [0, 1]]

Low-rank Plus Block-diagonal Matrix

Low-rank block-diagonal matrix is to update the original matrix with a low-rack part and a block-diagonal part. For example, this matrix is a low-rack plus block-diagonal matrix:

 [[[1, 0],
    [0, 1]],
   [[0, 0],
    [-1, 0]]]

How to Reduce the Number of Trainable Parameters?

The number of trainable parameters can be calculated by the following equation:

\[ \text{Number of Trainable Parameters} = \text{Number of Weights} \times \text{Dimension of Weights} \]

We can reduce the number of trainble parameters by reducing the number of weights or reducing the dimension of weights.

Reduce the Number of Weights

We can reduce the number or weights by removing some weights. For example, we can remove the biases, or we can remove the weights that have a small magnitude.

Reduce the Dimension of Weights

We also can reduce the dimension of weights. For example, the depth-wise convolution can reduce the dimension of the weights.

What is Parameter-EFFICIENT Orthogonal Finetuning?

Parameter-EFFICIENT Orthogonal finetuning (PEOF) is a method that uses
