--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

What is Parameter-Efficient Finetuning?

Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) is a method that can reduce the number of trainable parameters while still achieving good performance. It is a kind of finetuning method. The finetuning methods can be divided into two categories: gradient-based finetuning and knowledge distillation finetuning. PEFT is a gradient-based finetuning method.

Why do we need Parameter-Efficient Fineteuning?

The reason why we need PEFT is that the number of trainable parameters in the finetuning stage is too large. For example, the number of trainable parameters of BERT-base is 110M, and the number of trainable parameters after finetuning with a learning rate of 2e-5 for 10 epochs is about 120M. This is a waste of resources. In addition, the number of trainable parameter will increase as the model scales up. For example, the BERT-large has 340M trainable parameters, and the number of parameters after finetuning is about 380M. This is a huge waste of resources.

How does Parameter-Efficient Fineting work?

PEFT uses a factorization trick to reduce the number of trainable parameter. The factorization trick is to multiply multiple matrices to get the final matrix. For example, if we have three matrices A, B, and C, we can multiply them to get a new matrix D. D = A * B * C. In this case, only A, B, and c have trainable parameters, and D does not have any trainable parameters. This is the key to reducing the number of trainable parameters.

In PEFT, the original model is first frozen, and then a set of projection matrices are trained. These projection matrices are used to transform the original model. After training, these projection matrices are multiplied to get the finetuned model. The multiplication order is from the front to the end. For example, if there are three projection matrices P1, P2, and P3, the multiplication order is P1 * P2 * P3. The original model is multiplied to the end.

What is the difference between PEFT and standard finetuning?

In standard finetuning, all the parameters are trainable. In PEFT, only the projection matrices are trainable. The original model is not trainable.

What is the difference among different PEFT methods?

There are three PEFT methods in the paper: OFT, COFT, and BOFT. OFT uses a block-diagonal matrix to perform projection. COFT uses a low-rank matrix to perform projection. BOFT uses a block-low-rank matrix to performprojection.

What is the block-diagonal matrix?

The block-diagonal matrix is a matrix that has many diagonal blocks. The diagonal blocks are square matrices. The non-diagonal blocks are zero matrices. For example, the following matrix is a block-diagonal matrix with two diagonal blocks.

What is the low-rank matrix?

The low-rank matrix is a matrix that its rank is small. For example, the matrix below has a rank of 2. It is a low-rank matrix.

What is the block-low-rank matrix?

The block-low-rank matrix is a block-diagonalmatrix that has small rank for each diagonal block. For example, thefollowing matrix is a block-low-rankmatrix with two diagonal blocks. Each diagonal block has a rank of 1.

How to implement the three PEFT methods?

I will give an example to show how to implement the three PEft methods. Suppose we have a 4x4 matrix. We want to use the three PEFT methods to finetune it. The three projection matrices are P1, P2 and P3. The size of each projection matrix is 4x4.

OFT implementation

In OFT, we use a block-diagonal matrix as the projection matrix. The block-diagonal matrix has two diagonal blocks. The size of each diagonal block is 2x2. The non-diagonal block is zero matrix. The following figure shows the multiplication process.

COFT implementation

In COFT, we use a low-rank matrix as the projection matrix.The low-rank matrix has a rank of 0.5. The following figure shows themultiplication process.

BOFT implementation

In BOFT, we use a block-low-rank matrice as theprojection matrix. The block-low-rank matrix has two diagonalblocks. The rank of each diagonal block is1. The following figure shows thenon-multiplication process.

What is the efficiency of the three PEFT methods in terms of the number of trainable parameters?

The following table shows the number of trainable parameters for the three PEFT methods. The table assumes that we use a 4x4 projection matrix. The number of trainable parameters of the original model is 16. The number of trainable parameter for the three PEFTmethods is shown in the table.

What is the efficiencyof the
