\title{Blogs about the Paper: "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning"}

# Beyond Text Prompts: The Secret Geometry of Controlling AI Images with Orthogonal Finetuning

Text-to-image diffusion models have revolutionized how we generate imagery, turning simple descriptions into breathtaking visuals. However, adding specific constraints—like generating a "cat wearing sunglasses" or applying precise edge detection—remains a tough challenge. While current methods mostly rely on tweaking a few parameters or adding lightweight adapters, they often struggle to balance the need for new functionality with the preservation of the model's original artistic flair. A groundbreaking paper titled "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" proposes a different approach. Instead of focusing on the magnitude of weights, it suggests that controlling the geometry of neurons on a hypersphere is the key to unlocking stricter control without collapsing the generative ability.

The core insight driving this work is a bit counterintuitive: in deep neural networks, it is often the *angle* between neurons rather than their *size* that carries the most critical semantic information. The authors support this by examining autoencoders in toy experiments. When images are represented as features extracted by neural layers, simply scaling up or down these features (changing magnitude) tells you very little about what was originally seen. In contrast, rotating these features (changing their direction) can perfectly reconstruct the input image if you know the magnitudes. This observation suggests that if we want to teach a model to recognize new subjects or follow specific structural controls without losing its ability to create realistic scenes, we should focus our updates on modifying neuron angles systematically rather than just adjusting their strength.

To make finetuning more predictable and stable, the researchers introduce a mathematical concept called hyperspherical energy. Imagine every neuron in a layer as a point on the surface of a giant sphere. Hyperspherical energy measures how evenly these points are spaced around that sphere; lower energy means the points are more uniformly distributed. The authors hypothesize that high-quality pre-trained models maintain this geometric structure, and destroying it during training leads to loss of fidelity and diversity. Standard finetuning methods often treat neuron updates as random tweaks within a continuous space, which can easily scramble this delicate geometric arrangement. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) addresses this by enforcing an invariance property: it ensures that when updating neurons during training, it applies a shared orthogonal transformation to all neurons in a layer. Mathematically, an orthogonal transformation preserves angles, meaning the distance between any two points on the sphere remains exactly the same before and after finetuning. By keeping this pairwise relationship intact, OFT effectively preserves the "shape" probability distribution learned during pretraining while allowing the system to adapt to new tasks like DreamBooth subject generation or ControlNet-style edge maps.

While standard orthogonal transformations guarantee angle preservation, they might still be too aggressive for different downstream tasks, potentially drifting too far from optimal solutions for specific goals like perfect landmark alignment in face generation. To solve this tension between flexibility and stability, the authors propose Constrained Orthogonal Finetuning (COFT). COFT builds upon OFT by adding an explicit radius constraint around the original pretrained model weights. This limits how much "rotation" is allowed during training steps, ensuring that while we adjust directions effectively using OFT principles, we stay close enough to the pretrained knowledge to avoid instability or model collapse. This constraint acts like an internal safety net, guiding the optimization process along a smoother path toward convergence without sacrificing controllability.

The results presented in the paper validate that geometry matters significantly for practical applications. In subject-driven generation tasks like DreamBooth, where you try to generate specific subjects given only a few examples (e.g., your own face), existing methods like LoRA often fail after extended training; they might start rendering generic fur instead of your specific facial features because they lost track of identity details within those angle relationships. In contrast, when OFT is applied using its block-diagonal parameterization to reduce computational cost and complexity efficiently compared to modifying every single weight directly by its own rotation matrix $\bm{R}$ where $\bm{R}^\top\bm{R}=\bm{I}$ (where $\bm{I}$ represents an identity matrix ensuring orthogonality), it maintains high-quality subject fidelity even after thousands of iterations without collapsing into generic faces defined by yellow fur or other textures common in failed experiments seen with LoRA prior work~\cite{hulora2022}. Similar improvements are observed in controllable generation scenarios using ControlNet-adapted settings; COFT achieves convergence faster than traditional adapter methods while maintaining higher quantitative scores for control consistency metrics such as IoU or F1 score compared against SSM improved benchmarks~\cite{zhang2023adding}. These gains arise because OFT operates within what can be viewed as an optimization landscape akin to fitting data points onto a smooth manifold rather than navigating rough terrain scattered across Euclidean space~\cite{liu2021orthogonal}.