--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain how DPO works?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain how DPO works?<|EOT|>

    I have a question about the DPO. I have a 2 year old and a 4 month old. I am breastfeeding and pumping. I am currently on my 3rd cycle of Clomid. I have been on it for 5 days now and I have not had a period yet. I have been having some cramping and spotting but no period. I have been reading that the DPO is the day before your period starts. So if I have not had a cycle yet, does that mean I am still in the DPO? I am confused. Thanks for any help you can give me.

  2. #2


    Hi there,

    I'm sorry to hear that you are having trouble with your cycle. I'm not sure what your doctor has told you, but I would suggest that you contact your doctor and ask for clarification. It sounds like you are experiencing some PMS symptoms, which is common during the first few cycles of Clomid. You may want to try taking a pregnancy test to see if you are pregnant or not. If you are not pregnant, then you may want to consider trying another form of fertility treatment.

    I hope this helps!

  3. #3


    I am also confused about the DPO. My doctor said that I am in the DPO and I have not had my period yet. I am confused because I have been having some spotting and cramping. I am not sure if I am in the DOP or not. I am also confused about when to take a pregnancy test. I have been having cramping and spotting for about 2 weeks now. I am not sure when I should take a test. I am also confused because I have been reading that I should take a test after the DPO. I am confused. Thanks.

  4. #4


    Hi there,

  5. #5


    I am also having trouble with my cycle. I have been on Clomid for 5 days and I have not had any period. I have been having spotting and cramping. My doctor said that the DPO is 14 days after the start of your last period. I am confused because my last period was 2 weeks ago. I am also confused when to take a pregnancy tests. I have been having bleeding for about 2 weeks. I am not sure what to do. Thanks.

  6. #6


    Hi there,

Leave a Reply<|endoftext|>
