--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

1. What is parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning?

Parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning is a method to improve the performance of pretrained models. It is based on the idea of orthogonal finetuning. The difference is that parameter-efficient orthogonal finetune uses a factorized weight matrix to achieve parameter efficiency.

2. Why do we need parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunig?

The reason is that the original orthogonal finetuning is not parameter-efficient. It uses a full weight matrix to update the pretrained model. The parameter efficiency is low. In order to improve the parameter efficiency, the author uses a factorized weight to update the pretrained model.

3. How does parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunable work?

The parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunning uses a factorized weight. The factorized weight is composed of a learnable weight matrix and a frozen weight matrix. The learnable weight matrix is used to update the pretrained model, while the frozen weight matrix is used to constrain the learnable weight matrix.

4. How to construct the factorized weight matrix?

The factorized weight matrix is constructed by the product of a learnable weight and a frozen weight. The learnable weight is a matrix with the same size as the weight matrix of the pretrained model. The frozen weight is a matrix with a smaller size than the weight matrix of the pretrain model. The size of the frozen weight is usually 1/4 of the size of the weight matrix of the original pretrained model.

5. How to update the pretrained model with the factorized weight matrix

The factorized weight matrix can be used to update the pretrained weight matrix. The update rule is the same as the original orthogonal finetunig. The difference is that the orthogonal finetunig uses a full weight matrix, while the parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunnig uses a factorized weight.

6. How to train the learnable weight matrix?

The learnable weight matrix is trained by gradient descent. The gradient is computed by the loss function. The loss function is the same as the loss function used in the original orthogonal finetunning. The difference is that we use the factorized weight to compute the gradient.

7. How to train the frozen weight matrix?

The frozen weight matrix is not trained. It is fixed during the training process of the learnable weight matrix. The frozen weight matrix is used as a constraint to the learnable weight matrix to ensure the orthogonality of the weight matrix.

8. How to construct the frozen weight matrix?

There are many ways to construct the frozen weight. The simplest way is to use a random matrix. The size of the random matrix is usually 1/2 or 1/4 of size of the weight matrix. Another way is to use the weight matrix of the same pretrained model. The size of this weight matrix is the same as the size of the weight matirx of the pretrained model.

9. How to choose the frozen weight matrix?

It depends on the task. For example, if we want to finetune a pretrained language model to a downstream task, we can use the weight matrix of another pretrained language model as the frozen weight matrix. If we want to finetunig a pretrained image classifier to a downstream task, the frozen weight matrix can be the weight matrix of another image classifier.

10. How to combine parameter-efficient orthogonal fineturning with other finetunig methods?

We can combine parameter-efficient orthogonal finettuning with other finetunign methods. For example, we can combine it with data augmentation, label smoothing, etc.

11. What are the advantages of parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuntuing?

The advantages are parameter efficiency and good performance. It is parameter efficient because it uses a factorized weight instead of a full weight. It has good performance because it can improve the performance of pretrained model.

12. What are the disadvantages of parameter-efficient orthogonal finettunig?

The disadvantages are that it is not easy to implement and it may not work well for all tasks. It is not easy to implement because it uses a factorizd weight. It may not work well for some tasks because the frozen weight matrix may not be suitable for the task.

13. What are the future directions of parameter-efficient orthogonal finetting?

There are many future directions. For example, we may use a more efficient factorized weight, such as a sparse weight. We may also use a better way to construct the frozen weight, such as using the weight matrix of a similar pretrained model.

14. What are the limitations of parameter-efficient orthogonal fineting?

The limitations are that it is not suitable for all tasks and it may not work as well as other finetunig methosds. It is not suitable for all task because the frozen weight matrix is not suitable for all taks. It may not work as well because it is not easy to implemet and it may not be suitable for all tasks.

15. What are the related works?

There are many related works. For example, there are
