--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

1. What is Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal FineTuning (PFT)?

Parameter-Efficient Orthogonally FineTuning (POT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method. It can be used to finetune pretrained models. It can also be used to finetuning models with a small number of parameters.

2. How does PFT work?

PFT uses a block-diagonal matrix to update the pretrained model. The block-diagonal matrix is composed of multiple orthogonal matrices. Each orthogonal matrix is used to update a layer of the pretrained model.

3. Why does PFT work?

The block-diagonal matrix can be written as a product of multiple orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrices can be written as a sum of multiple orthogonal matrices. Therefore, the block-diagonal matrix can also be written as a sum product of multiple orthogonal matrices.

4. How to construct the orthogonal matrices?

The orthogonal matrices can be constructed by factorizing the identity matrix. The factorization method is called the Cayley transform.

5. How to construct the block-diagonal matrix?

The block-diagonal matrices can be constructed by multiplying the orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrix can be multiplied by the block-diagonal matrix.

6. How to use PFT to finetune a pretrained model?

First, we need to construct the block-diagonlal matrix. Then, we can multiply the block-diagonal matrix to the pretrained model. Finally, we can train the model with the block-diagonal matrix. After training, we can multiply the pretrained model to the block-diagonal matrix again to get the finetuned model.

7. How to use PFB to finetune a model with a small number of parameter?

First, we need a pretrained model with a large number of parameters. Then, we can construct the block-diagonal matrices. Finally, we can multiply the model with the block diagonal matrices to get the finetune model.

8. How to use PBT to finetune a large pretrained model?

First, the pretrained model is divided into multiple blocks. Then, we can use PFT to finitune each block. Finally, we can combine the finetuned blocks to get the finetuned model.

9. How to use PCT to finetune a small pretrained model?

First, a pretrained model with a small number parameters is divided into multiple blocks with the same size. Then, we can finetune each block with PFT. Finally, we can concatenate the finetuned blocks together to get the finetunned model.

10. How to use PPT to finetune a very small pretrained model?

Firstly, we need to construct a block-diagonal matrix. Then, we need to divide the pretrained model into multiple blocks with the size of the block-diagonal matrix and multiply the pretrained model to each block. Finally, the finetuned model is the sum of the finetuned blocks.

11. How to use PTT to finetune a tiny pretrained model?

Firstly we need to construct a very small block-diagonal matrix. Secondly, we need to divide a tiny pretrained model into multiple blocks. Finally, we can finetun the model by multiplying the pretrained model to each blocks.

12. How to use PGT to finetune a general pretrained model?

Firstly the pretrained model is divided to multiple blocks. Then, the block-diagonal matrices are constructed. Finally, the pretrained model is multiplied to each block and the sum of the finituned blocks is the finetuned model.


1. Parameter-Efficient Orthogolnally FineTuning via Factorization

2. Parameter-Efficient Finetuning

3. Parameter-Efficient FineTuning

4. Parameter-Efficient Training

5. Parameter-Efficient Transfer Learning

6. Parameter-Efficient Adaptation

7. Parameter-Efficient Tuning

8. Parameter-Efficient Learning

9. Parameter-Efficient Optimization

10. Parameter-Efficient Regularization

11. Parameter-Efficient Inference

12. Parameter-Efficient Evaluation

13. Parameter-Efficient Deployment

14. Parameter-Efficient Maintenance

15. Parameter-Efficient Monitoring

16. Parameter-Efficient Debugging

17. Parameter-Efficient Reproducibility

18. Parameter-Efficient Collaboration

19. Parameter-Efficient Publication

20. Parameter-Efficient Review

21. Parameter-Efficient Presentation

22. Parameter-Efficient Demonstration

23. Parameter-Efficient Communication

24. Parameter-Efficient Coordination

25. Parameter-Efficient Cooperation

26. Parameter-Efficient Competition

27. Parameter-Efficient Negotiation

28. Parameter-Efficient Trade

29. Parameter-Efficient Investment

30. Parameter-Efficient Financing

31. Parameter-Efficient Credit

32. Parameter-Efficient Taxation

33. Parameter-Efficient Regulation

34. Parameter
