--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the motivation, then the intuition, and finally the details.

Motivation

The motivation is to reduce the number of trainable parameters in finetuning. The paper says that the number of trainable parameters is linear to the number of layers. So, if we have a 100-layer model, the number of trainable parameters will be 100 times the number of parameters in the first layer. This is a huge number. The paper says that this is the reason why finetuning is not widely used in practice.

Intuition

The intuition is to use a small matrix to multiply the weight matrix. This small matrix is called a factor matrix. The factor matrix is multiplied with the weight matrix to get the finetuned weight matrix. The factor matrix has a special structure. It is a block-diagonal matrix. The block-diagonal matrix has zeros on the diagonal except for the diagonal blocks. The diagonal blocks are the same matrix. The size of the diagonal blocks is the same as the size of the weight matrix. The paper says that we can use the same matrix for all diagonal blocks. This is the key to reduce the number of parameters.

Details

The paper says that we can get the factor matrix by multiplying a matrix with a vector. The matrix is a block-diagonal sparse matrix. The vector is a dense vector. The paper says that there are many ways to get the block-diagonal sparse matrix and the dense vector. The paper gives two ways. The first way is to use the block-diagonal sparse Cholesky decomposition. The second way is to use the sparse QR decomposition. The paper says that both ways are good. The paper also gives a way to get the dense vector. The dense vector is the product of the block-diagonal sparse matrices. The paper says that all the ways are good.

The paper says that we need to choose the block size. The block size is the size of the diagonal blocks. The paper says that a small block size is good. The paper gives a way to choose the block size.

The paper says that the finetuned weight is the product of the weight matrix and the factor matrix. The paper says the finetuned weight has a special structure. The paper says that most of the elements in the finetuned weight are zeros. The paper says that only the elements on the diagonal line are not zeros. The paper says this is the reason why the finetuned weight can be stored efficiently.

The paper says that there are two ways to finetune the bias. The first way is the same as finetuning the weight. The second way is not to finetune the biases. The paper says that it is better to not finetune the biases.

The paper says that it is easy to implement the factorization finetuning. The reason is that we only need to multiply two matrices. The paper says it is much easier than gradient descent.

The paper says that factorization finetuning is fast. The reason is that the number of multiplications is much less than gradient descent. The paper says that factorization is much faster than gradient descent.

The rest of the paper is about experiments. The experiments show that factorization finetunig is better than gradient descent finetuning. The experiments are about language models, image classifiers, and object detectors. The experiments show that the performance is better or the same as gradient descent finetuning.

I hope you like this summary.<|endoftext|>
