\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Byte Latent Transformer: Patches Scale Better Than Tokens"}

### How are FLOPs counted for the embedding layer in BLT vs. Token-based models?
Question:
In Section 4.5 (FLOPs Estimation), the authors state: 'we assume the input embedding layer is implemented as an efficient lookup instead of a dense matrix multiplication, therefore becoming a 0-flop operation.'

This seems to apply to both BLT and the baseline models. However, BLT has a fixed byte vocabulary (size 256) while Llama 3 has a 128k token vocabulary. Even if lookups are technically 'free' in FLOP counts, doesn't the memory bandwidth cost differ significantly? More importantly, since BLT adds hash n-gram embeddings (Section 3.2.1), aren't there extra lookup operations there that might offset the savings from having fewer transformer steps? How strictly does the '0-flop' assumption hold when comparing these architectures?
Answer:
The "0-flop" assumption stated in Section 4.5 is a standard convention in deep learning literature specifically designed to isolate the cost of the transformer architecture itself from the input representation layer, but your intuition regarding the differing hardware realities between BLT and Llama 3 is correct. When the authors state that the embedding layer is a "0-flop operation," they are explicitly assuming an efficient lookup implementation rather than a dense matrix multiplication ($O(V \times d)$), which applies to both the byte-level inputs of BLT and the token-level inputs of the baseline models. Under this strict arithmetic definition, retrieving a vector from a table involves no floating-point additions or multiplications, regardless of whether the table size $V$ is 256 (for bytes) or 128,000 (for Llama 3 tokens). Consequently, in the FLOP counts reported for the scaling laws, neither model incurs a penalty for the initial embedding lookup, nor for the hash $n$-gram embeddings added in the BLT local encoder (Section 3.2.1), as these are also treated as memory accesses rather than arithmetic operations.

However, this accounting method intentionally obscures the significant differences in memory bandwidth and cache behavior that you identified. While a lookup is "free" in terms of FLOPs, it is not free in terms of latency or energy; fetching embeddings for a 128k vocabulary requires substantially more memory bandwidth and induces more cache misses than fetching from a tiny 256-entry byte table or even the moderate-sized hash tables used for BLT's $n$-grams (which the paper notes are fixed at 500k hashes shared across $n$-gram sizes). The authors acknowledge this distinction implicitly by focusing their efficiency claims on the *transformer steps* rather than the embedding overhead. The primary efficiency gain of BLT arises not from saving FLOPs on the embedding layer, but from reducing the sequence length fed into the expensive global latent transformer via dynamic patching. The extra lookups required for BLT's hash $n$-gram embeddings (summing vectors for $n=3$ to $8$) are computationally negligible compared to the massive savings achieved by running the global transformer on fewer patches than a token-based model runs on tokens, especially when those patches cover predictable, low-entropy regions of text. Therefore, while the "0-flop" assumption holds strictly for the arithmetic count used to generate the paper's scaling curves, it serves as an abstraction that hides the fact that BLT likely enjoys superior memory locality and lower bandwidth pressure at the input stage compared to large-vocabulary token models, further compounding its inferred efficiency advantages beyond just the reduced transformer depth.