----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was found to have progressive dysphagia, dysphonia, proximal muscle weakness and creatine kinase elevation over a 4-month course.
answer: proximal muscle weakness
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a female patient in her 60s who developed progressive dysphagia, dysphonia, and elevated creatine kinase over a 4-month course after semaglutide use was found on evaluation to have proximal muscle weakness.

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was found to have progressive dysphagia, dysphonia, proximal muscle weakness and creatine kinase elevation over a 4-month course.
answer: 4-month course
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a female patient in her 60s developed progressive dysphagia, dysphonia, proximal muscle weakness, and creatine kinase elevation over a 4-month course.

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her work-up revealed features consistent with necrotising myopathy with inflammatory infiltrate on biopsy, and she responded to immunosuppression with corticosteroids and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG).
answer: intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG)
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient’s work-up showed necrotising myopathy with inflammatory infiltrate on biopsy, and she improved with immunosuppression; besides corticosteroids, she responded to intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG).

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Here, we describe the first reported case of IMNM probably associated with GLP-1 receptor agonist use, with apparent response to a short course of immunosuppression and IVIG.
answer: "a short course of immunosuppression and IVIG"
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient with the first reported case of immune-mediated necrotising myopathy probably associated with GLP-1 receptor agonist use appeared to respond to "a short course of immunosuppression and IVIG".

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Here, we describe the first reported case of IMNM probably associated with GLP-1 receptor agonist use, with apparent response to a short course of immunosuppression and IVIG.
answer: "GLP-1 receptor agonist use"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the authors describe the first reported case of immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) that was probably associated with "GLP-1 receptor agonist use".

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Among the adverse effects described for this class of medications, a loss of skeletal muscle mass has been observed.
answer: a loss of skeletal muscle mass
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the background discussion notes that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists have been associated with a loss of skeletal muscle mass.

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Among the adverse effects described for this class of medications, a loss of skeletal muscle mass has been observed.
answer: skeletal muscle mass
statement: In the background section of the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", an adverse effect described for glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists is a decrease in skeletal muscle mass.

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this case, affected patient developed creatine kinase (CK) elevation in the thousands while being on active treatment, and the CK elevation started improving within days after drug discontinuation, which is consistent with drug-induced rhabdomyolysis.
answer: "drug discontinuation"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a related patient developed creatine kinase (CK) elevation in the thousands while receiving active treatment, and within days the CK level began to improve after "drug discontinuation".

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) is a distinct entity of myopathy characterised by aggressive proximal muscle weakness with necrotising myofibres and a paucity of lymphocytic infiltrates on histology.
answer: aggressive proximal muscle weakness
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the muscle weakness in immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) is described as aggressive proximal muscle weakness.

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) is a distinct entity of myopathy characterised by aggressive proximal muscle weakness with necrotising myofibres and a paucity of lymphocytic infiltrates on histology.
answer: a paucity of lymphocytic infiltrates
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) is described as a distinct myopathy with aggressive proximal muscle weakness and necrotising myofibres, and on histology there is typically a paucity of lymphocytic infiltrates.

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP) are two autoantibodies highly associated with IMNM.
answer: Anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP)
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the two autoantibodies described as being highly associated with immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) are Anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP).

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP) are two autoantibodies highly associated with IMNM.
answer: IMNM
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP) are described as two autoantibodies highly associated with IMNM.

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In particular, the use of statins which are commonly used in metabolic disorders is strongly associated with HMGCR autoantibody positivity.
answer: the use of statins
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the background section notes that certain metabolic-disease medications are discussed in relation to immune-mediated necrotising myopathy, and HMGCR autoantibody positivity is strongly associated with the use of statins.

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the case of statins, there were several patients who developed features of necrotising myopathy and were often classified as toxic myopathy or polymyositis prior to the discovery of HMGCR autoantibody association.
answer: features of necrotising myopathy
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", several patients developed muscle findings in the setting of statin use and were sometimes classified as toxic myopathy or polymyositis before the HMGCR autoantibody association was recognized, and they developed features of necrotising myopathy.

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These features, followed by improvement with immunosuppression, were suggestive of an autoimmune myopathy and eventually led to the identification of HMGCR autoantibody as a hallmark characteristic of the disease.
answer: HMGCR autoantibody
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", in prior cases of statin-associated necrotising myopathy in which patients had persistent myopathy and creatine kinase elevation despite stopping the statin, followed by improvement with immunosuppression, the autoantibody eventually identified as a hallmark characteristic of the disease was HMGCR autoantibody.

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was previously in good health and fully independent in her activities of daily living.
answer: in good health
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", before the onset of her progressive muscle weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia, the patient was previously functioning independently in her daily activities and was in good health

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 3 years prior to her clinical deterioration, she had been undergoing outpatient evaluation for transaminase elevation.
answer: transaminase elevation
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the female patient in her 60s had been undergoing outpatient evaluation 3 years before her clinical deterioration because of transaminase elevation.

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At that time, the patient had a mild elevation in aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), approximately within the range of twice the upper limit of normal (ALT greater than AST).
answer: "twice the upper limit of normal"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", at outpatient evaluation for transaminase elevation about 3 years before her clinical deterioration, the patient's AST and ALT were mildly elevated at "twice the upper limit of normal".

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A liver biopsy showed steatohepatitis consistent with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/NAFLD Activity Score grade 4/8, stage 0.
answer: steatohepatitis
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the liver biopsy performed during an earlier evaluation for elevated transaminases showed steatohepatitis.

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Within hours after receiving her first dose of semaglutide (0.25 mg subcutaneously), she experienced nausea and vomiting.
answer: 0.25 mg subcutaneously
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was started on semaglutide for persistent fatty liver and obesity, and within hours of her first injection she developed nausea and vomiting after receiving a first dose of 0.25 mg subcutaneously.

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Within hours after receiving her first dose of semaglutide (0.25 mg subcutaneously), she experienced nausea and vomiting.
answer: nausea and vomiting
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was started on semaglutide for persistent fatty liver and obesity, and within hours of her first 0.25 mg subcutaneous dose she developed nausea and vomiting.

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Symptoms persisted, and she was hospitalised 2 days later for nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure and severe metabolic acidosis.
answer: 2 days later
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after receiving her first semaglutide dose and subsequently developing nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, the patient was hospitalised 2 days later.

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Symptoms persisted, and she was hospitalised 2 days later for nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure and severe metabolic acidosis.
answer: severe metabolic acidosis
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient developed persistent nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, and acute renal failure within 2 days of her first semaglutide dose and was hospitalised for severe metabolic acidosis.

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She did not have any other associated symptoms, such as a rash, muscle pain or cola-coloured urine.
answer: a rash
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after the patient developed nausea, vomiting, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and elevated creatine kinase shortly after her first 0.25 mg subcutaneous semaglutide dose, the skin-related associated symptom specifically noted as absent was a rash.

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She did not have any other associated symptoms, such as a rash, muscle pain or cola-coloured urine.
answer: cola-coloured urine
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was hospitalised 2 days after her first semaglutide dose with nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, and she did not have cola-coloured urine.

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During this hospitalisation, she also developed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, but her serum troponin levels were normal.
answer: "paroxysmal atrial fibrillation"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the hospitalization that followed her first semaglutide dose, when she was admitted with nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, she developed "paroxysmal atrial fibrillation".

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During this hospitalisation, she also developed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, but her serum troponin levels were normal.
answer: "normal"
statement: According to the case report "...", the patient's serum troponin levels when she developed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during the hospitalization that followed her first semaglutide dose were "normal".

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the time of discharge, her gastrointestinal symptoms had resolved but she was deconditioned.
answer: resolved
statement: At the time of discharge after the 5-day hospitalization that followed her first semaglutide dose, which had caused nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, her gastrointestinal symptoms had resolved.

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the time of discharge, her gastrointestinal symptoms had resolved but she was deconditioned.
answer: deconditioned
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was hospitalized after her first semaglutide dose with nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, and at the time of discharge, her gastrointestinal symptoms had resolved but she was deconditioned.

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She denied any prior use of statins, significant consumption of other supplements associated with IMNM such as mushrooms or red yeast rice, or any other nutritional supplements.
answer: statins
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after her semaglutide exposure and during the history taken for possible IMNM triggers, the patient reported no prior use of statins.

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She denied any prior use of statins, significant consumption of other supplements associated with IMNM such as mushrooms or red yeast rice, or any other nutritional supplements.
answer: red yeast rice
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient denied significant consumption of mushrooms and other nutritional supplements associated with IMNM, including red yeast rice.

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also denied any significant family history of myopathy, recent excessive or prolonged physical activity, or alcohol or illicit drug use.
answer: illicit drug use
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the female patient in her 60s denied several possible contributors while being evaluated for progressive weakness after semaglutide exposure, including illicit drug use.

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 4 months after she received her initial and only dose of semaglutide, she continued to decline.
answer: 4 months
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after receiving her initial and only dose of semaglutide, the patient continued to decline for 4 months.

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This prompted her to present to an outside hospital where she was found to have an elevated CK of 3992 U/L (normal range: 12–191 U/L), present on admission.
answer: 3992 U/L
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient returned to an outside hospital 4 months after her initial and only dose of semaglutide because of worsening weakness and dysphagia, and her creatine kinase (CK) level on admission at that outside hospital was 3992 U/L.

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was then transferred to a tertiary hospital for rheumatology evaluation where she was found to be afebrile, normotensive and otherwise in no distress.
answer: "rheumatology evaluation"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after 4 months of progressive weakness and dysphagia and treatment with 5 days of intravenous methylprednisolone at an outside hospital, she was transferred to a tertiary hospital for "rheumatology evaluation".

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Physical examination revealed significant weakness, most evident in the proximal muscle groups (table 1).
answer: significant weakness
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", when the patient was evaluated at the tertiary hospital after 4 months of progressive weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia, the physical examination revealed significant weakness.

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Physical examination revealed significant weakness, most evident in the proximal muscle groups (table 1).
answer: proximal muscle groups
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after the patient developed progressive weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia, physical examination showed significant weakness that was most evident in the proximal muscle groups.

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She did not exhibit any rashes, skin changes, crackles, synovitis, oedema, sicca, oral ulcers or any other neurological deficits.
answer: "crackles"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after 4 months of progressive proximal weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia following a single dose of semaglutide, the abnormal lung finding that was not present on physical examination at the tertiary hospital was "crackles".

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 12 days after her discharge, she was hospitalised again for 10 days due to septic shock from pseudomonal urinary tract infection and was found to have a normal CK during that admission.
answer: pseudomonal urinary tract infection
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the subsequent hospitalization in which the patient was rehospitalized 12 days after discharge for 10 days with septic shock, the source of the septic shock was a pseudomonal urinary tract infection.

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 12 days after her discharge, she was hospitalised again for 10 days due to septic shock from pseudomonal urinary tract infection and was found to have a normal CK during that admission.
answer: normal CK
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during her rehospitalisation 12 days after discharge for 10 days because of septic shock from a pseudomonal urinary tract infection, her creatine kinase (CK) was normal CK.

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was last seen in the outpatient setting 10 months after her initial evaluation and treatment initiation and had regained her baseline functional status, off immunosuppression for 8 months.
answer: 8 months
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was last seen in the outpatient setting 10 months after her initial evaluation and treatment initiation, by which time she had regained her baseline functional status, and she had been off immunosuppression for 8 months.

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her laboratory work-up was notable for elevated CK of 1237 U/L at evaluation, with a peak of 3992 U/L measured 1 week prior at the transferring hospital.
answer: 12375 U/L
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after developing progressive weakness and dysphagia following a single semaglutide dose, her creatine kinase level at the time of evaluation was 12375 U/L.

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her laboratory work-up was notable for elevated CK of 1237 U/L at evaluation, with a peak of 3992 U/L measured 1 week prior at the transferring hospital.
answer: 39925 U/L
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient’s peak creatine kinase level at the outside hospital 1 week before her evaluation, when her laboratory work-up later showed CK 1237 U/L, was 39925 U/L.

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her AST was 191 U/L and ALT 165 U/L in the setting of elevated serum CK and history of fatty liver.
answer: 165 U/L
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during evaluation for elevated serum creatine kinase in the setting of a history of fatty liver, when her AST was 191 U/L, her ALT was 165 U/L.

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: MRI of bilateral femurs revealed mild, symmetric bilateral muscular oedema most evident in the proximal vastus lateralis muscles and distal quadriceps muscles, as well as subcutaneous oedema along the lateral aspect of the bilateral thighs (figure 2).
answer: "the proximal vastus lateralis muscles and distal quadriceps muscles"
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", MRI of both femurs showed mild, symmetric bilateral muscle oedema in the thighs, with the most evident oedema in "the proximal vastus lateralis muscles and distal quadriceps muscles".

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: MRI of bilateral femurs revealed mild, symmetric bilateral muscular oedema most evident in the proximal vastus lateralis muscles and distal quadriceps muscles, as well as subcutaneous oedema along the lateral aspect of the bilateral thighs (figure 2).
answer: "subcutaneous oedema"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", MRI of both femurs during evaluation of her progressive proximal weakness showed mild symmetric muscular oedema in the vastus lateralis and quadriceps muscles, as well as oedema along the lateral aspect of both thighs, namely "subcutaneous oedema".

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A cardiac MRI was also obtained, which showed mild hypokinesis of the mid-anteroseptal and anterior wall associated with myocardial oedema and no definite late gadolinium enhancement, potentially related to myocardial inflammation/early myocarditis or potentially focal stress-induced cardiomyopathy.
answer: "mild hypokinesis"
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a cardiac MRI obtained during the patient’s evaluation after she developed progressive weakness and elevated creatine kinase following semaglutide exposure showed "mild hypokinesis".

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A cardiac MRI was also obtained, which showed mild hypokinesis of the mid-anteroseptal and anterior wall associated with myocardial oedema and no definite late gadolinium enhancement, potentially related to myocardial inflammation/early myocarditis or potentially focal stress-induced cardiomyopathy.
answer: "no definite late gadolinium enhancement"
statement: The cardiac MRI obtained during the patient’s evaluation showed mild hypokinesis of the mid-anteroseptal and anterior wall with myocardial oedema and was notable for "no definite late gadolinium enhancement".

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There was no significant myocardial scarring or infarction, nor significant valvular dysfunction.
answer: "myocardial scarring or infarction"
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", cardiac MRI showed mild hypokinesis with myocardial oedema but no definite late gadolinium enhancement, and the cardiac structural abnormality specifically reported as not significant on imaging was "myocardial scarring or infarction".

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her high-resolution CT chest was negative for interstitial lung disease and lymphadenopathy.
answer: lymphadenopathy
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient’s high-resolution CT chest was negative for interstitial lung disease and also showed no lymphadenopathy.

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: MRI of her abdomen demonstrated steatotic hepatomegaly, but otherwise unremarkable and with no lymphadenopathy.
answer: steatotic hepatomegaly
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the evaluation of her progressive weakness and elevated creatine kinase, abdominal MRI demonstrated steatotic hepatomegaly.

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: MRI of her abdomen demonstrated steatotic hepatomegaly, but otherwise unremarkable and with no lymphadenopathy.
answer: lymphadenopathy
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the work-up for progressive weakness after a single semaglutide dose, the patient's abdominal MRI showed steatotic hepatomegaly but was otherwise unremarkable, with no lymphadenopathy.

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A liver biopsy, performed during her admission, demonstrated multiple cores of hepatic tissue with small and large droplet macrovesicular steatosis encompassing approximately 70% of the submitted hepatic parenchyma with no significant portal inflammation nor interface hepatitis.
answer: interface hepatitis
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the patient’s admission for progressive weakness after semaglutide exposure, the liver biopsy showed macrovesicular steatosis involving about 70% of the hepatic parenchyma and, besides the lack of significant portal inflammation, the absence of interface hepatitis.

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These findings were consistent with her history of hepatosteatosis, with mild progression of her underlying liver disease to NAFLD Activity Score grade 5/8, stage 1.
answer: "stage 1"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a repeat liver biopsy performed during her admission after she had been found to have hepatosteatosis showed mild progression of her underlying liver disease to "stage 1".

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A muscle biopsy of the right vastus lateralis demonstrated dispersed necrotic and regenerating muscle fibres (figure 3A,B), and immunohistochemistry stains revealed acid phosphatase (figure 3D) and cluster of Differentiation-68 (CD68) staining, a macrophage marker, with myophagocytosis (figure 4B).
answer: cluster of Differentiation-68 (CD68)
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a muscle biopsy of the right vastus lateralis showed necrotic and regenerating muscle fibres, and immunohistochemistry staining from that biopsy identified cluster of Differentiation-68 (CD68).

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There was also a membrane attack complex positive stain on necrotising and non-necrotising myofibres (figure 4C), consistent with an inflammatory response.
answer: membrane attack complex
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a muscle biopsy from the right vastus lateralis showed a stain that was positive on both necrotising and non-necrotising myofibres, consistent with an inflammatory response, and this stain was the membrane attack complex.

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There was also a membrane attack complex positive stain on necrotising and non-necrotising myofibres (figure 4C), consistent with an inflammatory response.
answer: an inflammatory response
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient’s right vastus lateralis muscle biopsy showed a membrane attack complex positive stain on necrotising and non-necrotising myofibres, which was consistent with an inflammatory response.

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There were also rare CD3, a T-cell marker positive cells (figure 4A), and perivascular inflammatory cells (figure 3C).
answer: perivascular inflammatory cells
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a right vastus lateralis muscle biopsy performed after the patient developed progressive proximal weakness, dysphagia, and an elevated creatine kinase described rare CD3-positive T cells and perivascular inflammatory cells.

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her initial symptoms included gastrointestinal side effects and renal failure suspected secondary to hypovolaemia.
answer: "gastrointestinal side effects"
statement: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient developed symptoms soon after her first and only semaglutide dose, and her initial symptoms were thought to include renal failure suspected secondary to hypovolaemia and "gastrointestinal side effects".

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her initial symptoms included gastrointestinal side effects and renal failure suspected secondary to hypovolaemia.
answer: "hypovolaemia"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient's renal failure, which developed shortly after her first semaglutide dose in the setting of gastrointestinal side effects, was suspected to be secondary to "hypovolaemia".

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the present case, the patient’s clinical course is more consistent with IMNM than rhabdomyolysis.
answer: "rhabdomyolysis"
statement: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the alternative condition considered less consistent with her clinical course than IMNM was "rhabdomyolysis".

