--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is the first method that allows for finetuning of 3B and 7B models on a single 48GB GPU while keeping a memory footprint of less than 15GB, making finetuning of these massive models suddenly both possible and feasible. In fact, the authors show that you can even finetune the full 3B GPT-3 model on a single 48 GB consumer GPU with only 12 GB of memory being used. To give some context, the GPT-3 model has 1.5 billion parameters, so finetuning such a large model was previously unthinkable without using multiple GPUs with far more than 12 GB of memory or using techniques like model pruning, which are slow and lossy.

The key insight of QLoRA is to use a technique called low-rank weight quantization. This technique has been shown to produce models that are indistinguishable from the original full-precision model in a zero-shot evaluation. However, QLoRA is thefirst method that shows that low-rank weight quantizaton is also well-suited for finetuning massive models with a memory footprint as small as 12 GB. The figure below visualizes how QLoRA works.

Figure 1: An overview of QLoRA. On the left, we see an original full-precision model with millions of weights. These weights are then quantized to a coarser weight grid using a learned quantization function (middle). This results in a small number of weights that are then stored inefficiently as full 16-bit precision weights, but with a much lower memory footprint. During training, the learned quantization function is applied to the gradients of the original loss function to obtain the gradients of the quantized model (right). These gradients are then used to optimize the original full-precision parameters.

The name QLoRA is an acronym for "Quantized Low-rank Weight Refinement". The name refers to the key idea of QLoRA, namely that we can quantize the weights of a model to a low-rank weight grid and then refine the quantization by optimizing the weights on this grid. The figure above shows how this works. First, we start with a full-precision model with a large number of weights. We then quantize these weights to a coarser weight space using a learned quantizationfunction. This results in a small set of weights that are stored inefficiently as full-precision weights, but with a drastically reduced memory footprint. During training we then optimize the original full-precison parameters using gradient information from the quantized model. To obtain the gradients of the original model, we apply the learned quantization function to the gradients of the quantization model. This way, we can optimize the original full- precision model parameters while only storing a small number of optimized weights in memory.

The figure below shows the memory requirements of QLoRA for different model sizes and bit-precisions. As we can see, QLoRA reduces the memory requirements of 16-bit finetuned models with 3B and 11B parameters from 24 GB and 12 GB to only 12 GB. This makes finetuning these models possible on a single 48-GPU consumer GPU for the first time. Furthermore, QLoRA also reduces the memory requirements of a 7B model from 36 GB to 15 GB, making it possible to finetune this model on a single 80 GB professional GPU.

Figure 2: Memory requirements of QLoRA as a function of the model size and bit-precision. QLoRA reduces the required memory for 16-bit finetunig from 24 GB for a 3B model to 12 GB, making finetuning this model possible on a single 12 GB consumer GPU for the first-time. QLoRA also reduces memory requirements from 36 GB to only 15 GB for a 7B model, making finetuning possible on a single 80GB professional GPU.

The table below shows a comparison of the memory requirements of Q LoRA with other methods for finetuning large models. As we can see QLoRA uses far less memory than standard 16-bit finitunig while still using 16-bit precision for the weights. In fact, QLoRA uses less memory than methods that use 4-bit or 8-bit precision for the weights, but suffer from a larger degradation in performance. Furthermore, QLo RA is the first method that makes it possible to finetunig models with 3B parameters on a single 12GB consumer GPU or models with 7B parameters on a single professional GPU with 80GB of memory.

Method Memory usage degradations
Standard 16-bit finetunning 24 GB - -
4-bit finetuning 6 GB -12.5 dB
8-bit finetuning 12 GB -7.5 dB
QLoRA 12 GB 0 dB
MobileNetV3 12 GB 0.5 dB

Table
