--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is an end-to-end training technique that can be used for any task that requires finetuning a pretrained model. It achieves this by quantizing the weights to 4 bits and the activations to 8 bits, a total of 12 bits per example, a reduction of 63.5% in memory requirements compared to 16-bit floating point (FP16). This allows for the training of models that are simply too big to train with 16-bit weights and activations on a single machine or a single cloud instance.

The authors evaluated QLoRA on 15 language understanding benchmarks, showing that it can recover more than 99% of the performance of full-precision 16-bit training on models up to 7B parameters in size. On some benchmarks, models quantized to 4 bits perform within 1% of the performance of models trained in 16-bit. This demonstrates that the 4-bit weight representation has almost no loss in performance and the memory savings are huge, allowing for the training of models well beyond 11B parameters, a limit that has so far been impossible to overcome.

The paper is overall very well written and the results are extremely impressive. The authors provide a detailed analysis of the memory requirements and the performance loss when using different bit widths for both weights and activations. They also show that their method can be used to train models that are simply too large to train with 16 bits on a single machine or instance. I have only a few minor comments and questions, none of which affect my decision to accept this paper for publication in NeurIPS.

Review of Related Work

I found the review of related work a bit too brief and not very detailed. For example, there is no mention of Low-rank Adapters (Li et al., 2022), a method that is very similar to QLoRA and was presented at the same time as this paper. The authors of that paper also use 4-bit weights and 8-bit activations and achieve state-of-the-art results on many of the benchmarks used in this paper. The main difference between the two methods is that Low-rank Adapters uses a low-rank weight update instead of an additive update as in QLoRA. I would have expected a more detailed comparison of the two methods and a discussion of why one might be preferable over the other.

In addition, I would have expected a discussion of other methods for reducing the memory requirements for training, such as mixed precision training, knowledge distillation, or model compression. While these methods are not aimed specifically at making training more memory efficient, they do address this problem and are widely used in the community. A discussion of how QLoRA compares to these methods in terms of memory savings, performance, and training time would be very useful.

Formal Definition of QLoRA

The formal definition of QLoRA in Section 3.2.2 is a bit confusing and hard to follow. In particular, I'm not sure what $q_\theta^{(a+1)}(x, y)$ means. Is this the same as $q_\theta^{new}(x, y)$, the quantized version of the updated model? If so, this should be made clearer.

In addition, I noticed a small mistake in the equation for $\hat{R}$. The denominator should be $n_{train}$, not $n$.

Memory Requirements

The section on memory requirements (Section 4) is very well done and provides a lot of useful information. However, I noticed a small error in the calculation of the memory requirements for T5. The context vector has a size of 512 B, not 4 KB, as stated in the paper. This does not affect the overall conclusion, but it's good to get the numbers right.

Training Time

The section on training time (Section 5) is also very well done and provides some interesting insights. However, I noticed that the training times for the 6B and 9B models on the CoLA benchmark are not included in the table. It would be good to include these numbers as well, especially since they are quite a bit longer than the training times for the other benchmarks.

Effect of Activation Bitwidth

The section on the effect of activation bitwidth (Section 6.2) is very interesting and provides some useful insights. However, I have a few questions and comments:

1. Why was only a 2-bit activation used in the experiments? It would be interesting to see how performance changes as the activation bitwidth is increased.

2. How does the choice of activation function affect performance with low-bit activations? For example, ReLU activations are known to be more robust to quantization than sigmoid or tanh activations. Did you explore how performance changes with different activation functions?

3. How does batch size affect performance with low-bit activation? Since low-bit activations introduce more quantization noise, it seems like smaller batch sizes would help to average out this noise and improve performance.

4. How does sequence length affect performance with low-bit activism
