--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's weight matrix to learn a new weight matrix that is orthogonal to the original one. BOFT is a generalization of OFT, which is a finetuning approach that uses a block-diagonal weight matrix. In this paper, we propose a new BOFT variant, called BOFT-2, which is a generalization of BOFT. We show that BOFT-2 is more efficient than BOFT and OFT. We also show that BOFT-1 is more efficient than BOFF-2. We conduct extensive experiments on ImageNet and CIFAR-10, and the results show that BOFT-3 is the best finetuning method. We also conduct experiments on the ImageNet-1K dataset, and the results show BOFT-3 is better than BOFT-2. We also conduct experiments with the ResNet-50 model, and the results show the BOFT-3 method is better than the BOFT-2 method. We also conduct a comparison with other finetuning methods, and the results show our BOFT-3 method outperforms other methods. We also conduct a comprehensive analysis of the BOFT-3 model, and the results indicate that BOFT-3 has better generalization ability than BOFT-2 and OFT. We believe that BOFT-3 can be used as a good finetuning method for large models.

Introduction
The development of deep learning has brought great benefits to many fields, such as computer vision, natural language processing, and speech recognition. However, the performance of deep learning models is limited by the size of the training data. To solve this problem, many researchers have proposed various methods to improve the performance of deep learning. One of the most popular methods is finetuning, which is a method that trains a model with a small amount of data to improve the performance of the model. The finetuning method is widely used in the field of deep learning. For example, the finetuning method is used to improve the performance of ImageNet [1] and the performance of the GoogleNet [2] model. The finetuned model is usually much better than the original model. However, finetuning is not always effective. For example, the performance of the finetuned model is not always better than the performance of the original model. Therefore, it is necessary to find a better finetuning method.
In this paper, we propose an efficient finetuning method, called BOFT, which is a general finetuning method. BOFT is a finetuning algorithm that uses a factorization to learn a new weight vector that is orthogonal to the weight vector of the original model. BOFT is a more efficient finetuning method than OFT [3] and its block-diagonal method [4]. BOFT is a general fineturing method that can be used to finetune any deep learning model. BOFT is more efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal finetuning method. In addition, BOFT is more efficient and more effective than the finetuning method that is based on the block-diagonal method. BOFT is also more efficient than the finetuning methods that are based on the orthogonal matrix method. BOFT is more effective than the finetting methods that are based on a block-diagonal matrix. BOFT is also a more effective finetuning method than the finetuning algorithms that are based on the block-diagonalmatrix method. BOFT is the most efficient finetuning method. The BOFT method is more efficient than the finetting methods based on the orthogonal matrix. BOFT is more powerful than the finetuning algorithm based on the block-diag-  [5] and the finetuning method based on the block-diagram method [6]. BOFT is more efficient, more effective, and more powerful than the finetting methods. BOFT is more powerfull than the finetuning of the orthogonal matrix. BOFF-2 is more efficient and more powerful than BOFT-2, and BOFT-2 is better than BOFT. BOFT-3 is more efficient and more powerfull than BOFT-2.
We conduct extensive experiments on the ImageNet and CIFAR10 datasets. The results show that BOFT is more efficient. BOFT-3 outperforms BOFT-2 and BOFT-1. BOFT-3 also outperforms the finetuning method of the orthogonal matrix. We also conduct experiments using the ResNet50 model. The results show that the BOFT-3 finetuning method is better than the finetuning using the block-diagonal method and the finetuning using an orthogonal matrix. We also compare BOFT with other finetuning algorithms. The results show that our BOFT-3 finetting method is better than the other finetuning methods. We also conduct an analysis of the BOFT model. The results show BOFT-2 has better
