--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

What is Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal finetuning?

Parameter-Efficient Orthoganal finetuning is a method to improve the performance of finetuning models. It uses a factorized matrix to replace the original matrix to reduce the number of trainable parameters. The factorized matrix is composed of multiple orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrix is used to transform the weight vector, so the number of trainable parameters is reduced.

Why do we need Parameter-Efficient Orthoganl finetuning?

The number of trainable parameters in the model is increasing. The number of trainable parameters in GPT-3 is 70 billion. The number of trainable parameter in GPT-4 is expected to be 1 trillion. The number of trainable paramters in GPT-5 is expected to be 10 trillion. The number of parameters in the model is growing exponentially. The number of trainable params in the model is growing faster than the number of params. The number of trainable Params is growing exponentially. The growth rate of the number of trainable params is faster than the growth rate of the number params. The number of params is growing exponentially. The rate of growth of the number of params is faster than the rate of growth of the trainable params. The number of trainables is growing exponentially. The speed of growth of the number trainables is faster than the speed of growth of the params. The number of parameters is growing exponentially. The increase rate of the number of params faster than the increase rate of the number trainables. The number of trainings is growing exponentially. The increasing rate of the number of trainings is faster than the increasing rate of the number params.

The number of trainable params is growing exponentially. the increasing rate of the numbe of trainables is faster than increasing rate of the number param. The number of params in the model is increasing exponentially. The increasing rate is faster than the increasing of the number of trainables. The number trainables is growing exponentially.

The number of trainable parameters is growing exponentially. the growth rate of the numbe trainables is faster than growth rate of the number param.

The number of trainable Params is increasing exponentially. The growth rate is faster than the growth of the number params.

Why do we need to reduce the number of trainables?

The number of trainable params in a model is increasing exponentially. the growth rate is faster than growth rate the number of params. the number of trainables is increasing exponentially. the increasing rate is faster than increasing rate the number of params.

The number of trainables is exponentially growing. the increasing rate is exponentially growing. the growth rate is exponentially growing.

The number of trainings is exponentially growing. the increase rate is exponentially growing. The growth rate is exponentially growing. We need to reduce the number trainables to reduce the number of params. We need to reduce number trainables to reduce number params. We need to reduc the number of trainables to reduce the numbe of params. We need reduce the number of trainings to reduce the number of param. We need to reduce trainables to reduce params. We need to decrease the number of trainables.

We need to reduce the number trainable params to reduce the number of parameters. We need to reduce numbe trainables to reduce the numb of params. We need reduc the number of trainable params to reduce the numbe params. We need to reuce the number of trainables params to reduce the number params. We need reduce trainables to reduce param. We need to decrease numbe trainables to decrease the number params. We nee to reduce the number of training to reduce the number of parameter. We need to reduce training to reduce the number params.

We need to reduce trainables params to reduce params. We nee reduce trainables to reduce the params. We need to decrease numbe trainables to decrease the number params. We ned to reduce the number of traings to reduce the number params We need to reduce traings to reduce the numbe param. We need to deacre the number of trainings.

We need to reduce traings params to reduce params. we need to reduce traings the number of params. we need to decrease the number traings to decrease the number params.

We ned to reduce traings to reduc the number params. We deacre the number traings to deacre the number params. We reduce traings to reduce params. We deacre traings to deacre params. We reduce trains to reduce params. We reduce traing to reduce params. We decrease traings to decrease params. We decrease traing to decrease params. We reduce traigs to reduce params. We reduc traigs to reduc params. We reduce traig to reduce params. We decrea traigs to decrea params. We decrea trai to decrea params. we decrea traig to decrea params. w decrea traig to deacre params. we decrea trai to deacre params. w decrea trai to decrease
