--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT introduces task-specific orthogonal parameters through a butterfly structure, which significantly reduces the number of trainable parameters compared to OFT. To address the challenge of optimizing the resulting extremely high-dimensional parameters, BOFT factorizes the orthogonal matrix into low-rank matrices that can be efficiently optimized. BOFT achieves new state-of-the-art results on image classification and text-to-image generative tasks, using much fewer trainable parameters than the previous state-of-the-art methods. In addition to its strong performance, BOFT is simple and efficient, easy to implement and use, and well-suishes large-scale training.

The rest of this blog post is organized as follows. In Section 2, we give an overview of BOFT and compare it with existing parameter-efficient finetuning methods. In Section 3, we introduce the details of BOFT. In Section 4, we conduct comprehensive experiments on image classification and textto-image generative tasks to evaluate BOFT's performance and efficiency. In Section 5, we provide some concluding remarks.

Overview of BOFT
In this section, we give an overview and comparison of BOFT with existing parameter-efficient finitunig methods. We first introduce the high-level pipeline of BOFT in Figure 1. BOFT is an instance of the more general finetuning paradigm, which consists of three phases: (1) pretrained model adaptation, (2) parameter-efficient finetuning, and (3) inference. In the pretrained model adaptation phase, BOFT takes a pretrained model and adapts it to a downstream task by optimizing the model's parameters with a small learning rate. In the parameter-efficient finetuning phase, BOFT further refines the representation learned in the pretrained model adaptation phase with even less trainable parameters. The final model is obtained by passing the representation through a linear layer in the inference phase.
BOFT focuses on the parameter-efficient finetunig phase. BOFT uses an orthogonal matrix to transform the representation from the pretrained model. Compared to OFT, BOFT reduces the number of trainable orthogonal parameters with a butterfly structure, as shown in Figure 2. BOFT introduces taskspecific orthogonal parameters through a butterfly network. The butterfly network has L layers. Each layer has N neurons. The i-th neuron in the l-th layer produces 2l outputs, which are connected to 2l neurons in the (l + 1)-th layer. The connections between neurons preserve orthogonality, i.e., the output of each neuron is orthogonal to the outputs of all other neurons. The input orthogonal matrix Ω ∈ R B×H is transformed into a task-specific orthogonal matrix Ω T ∈ R B×(2L+1) through the butterfly network. BOFT uses a low-rank factorization to efficiently optimize the high-dimensional orthogonal matrix. BOFT factorizes the output orthogonal matrix Ω T as the product of L factor matrices Ψ l ∈ R (2l+1)×r , where r is the rank. The factor matrices are shared across different tasks. BOFT optimizes the factor matrices with a small learning rate in the parameter-efficient finetune phase. The transformed representation is passed through a linear layer to produce the prediction in the inference phase.
How does BOFT perform parameter efficiency? We can count the number of trainable parameters in BOFT and OFT. BOFT has B(2L + 1)r parameters, where L is the number of butterfly layers, r is the rank of the factor matrix, and B is the width of the pretrained model. OFT has B(2L+1)(2L+1)-1 parameters. OFT has B2 2L+1 -1 more parameters than BOFT. When the number of butterfly layers L is fixed, BOFT reduces the parameter cost compared to OFT as the rank r becomes larger. When the rank r is fixed, BOFT also reduces the parameter cost compared with OFT as the number of butterfly layers becomes larger. In practice, we can set a moderate value for the rank r and a relatively large value for the number of butterfly layers to achieve good parameter efficiency and performance. BOFT is more flexible in achieving parameter efficiency than OFT. In contrast, OFT achieves parameter efficiency only when the number of blocks equals the width of the pretrained models, i.e., 2L + 1 = B.
How does BOFT achieve better parameter efficiency than OFT Block Diagonal (OFT-BD)? We can count the number parameters in OFT-BD. OFT-BD has B(2L) 2 parameters. OFT-BD reduces the parameter cost compared BOFT when the rank r is fixed and the number of butterfly layers is small. When the rank r becomes larger or the number of butterfly layers increases, BOFT reduces the parameters cost compared to OFT-BD. BOFT is more parameter efficient than OFT-BD in general.
How does BOFT work? BOFT introduces
