--- PROMPT ---
What practical advantages might arise from directly optimizing policies to satisfy preferences rather than first estimating a reward model, based on the approach described in the text?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
What practical advantages might arise from directly optimizing policies to satisfy preferences rather than first estimating a reward model, based on the approach described in the text?<|EOT|>, we can derive a policy that achieves the same expected reward as a given model-based policy, by setting the discount factor to 1. This means that the non-model-based policy selects actions according to its preferences, and therefore may be easier to implement and enforce, for example in situations where model parameters need to be estimated (e.g., deep neural networks contain sensitive algorithmic sensitivities, making them difficult to verify). We leave the exploration of such approaches to future work.

B.2 Simulating with learned reward functions
In this section, we consider the problem of sampling from a distribution of reward functions induced by a learned reward function R approx . Our goal is to sample an action from this distribution, using a policy learned from a different distribution πlearn . Formally, we are given a policy πlearn (x, ) and a reward function R approx (x, ) from the distribution of reward functions inducedby R approx , and wish to sample an action a ∼ R approx (x, ), where R approx (x, y) = πlearn (x, y) for y < a and R approx (x, a) = 1 for a ≤ y ≤ z, where z is the policy's natural stopping time. This problem arises naturally in the context of PPO, which uses a learned reward function to update the policy gradient estimates during optimization. During evaluation, it is desirable to use a policy learned from data to update the PPO update rules with a learned reward function that approximates the true reward function. However, the standard PPO update rule requires the reward function to be known exactly, and cannot be updated using a learned reward function that only provides an approximation. We present a solution to this problem, which involves sampling from the distribution of rewardfunctions induced by R approx , and then applying a standard PPO update rule. The full algorithm is given in Algorithm 1. Our approach can be applied to any algorithm that updates the policy gradient using a learned reward function, including PPO, DPO, and POE. We empirically evaluate Algorithm 1 on the MNIST and ImageNet datasets, finding that it produces better performance than standard PPO under similar parameter budgets.
The key idea of our approach is to first sample an action a ∉ [a min , a max ] using a policy πlearn , and then sample an action b ∼ R approx (a, ). Under the true reward function, the policy gradient of the objective function in Algorithm 1 with respect to the logarithm of the probability of victory is where we have used the fact that the logarithm of the reward is a concave function. Therefore, applying the PPO update rule to the sampled policy π(b) = πlearn (b, ) with the sampled reward function R approx (b, ) yields an updated policy πupdated (b, ) that achieves the same expected logarithm of the probabilityof-victory as πlearn (b, ), but with a learned reward function Rapprox . We repeat this process of sampling an action b using Rapprox (b, ) and then updating to πupdated (b, ), a total of K times, until the desired number of updates to the policy has been completed. We evaluate Algorithm 1 on two different metrics. The first is log-loss, which is defined as where p(ay|win) is the true reward function evaluated at action y sampled using policy πlearn , and p(b|win, y) is the learned reward function evaluated at action Yields an updated policy πupdated using the sampled reward function Rapprox (y, ) up to K times, then return the policy πupdated (y, ) for 0 < y < a max and p(z|win, y) for a < y ≤ z.  Figure 4: Log-loss of policy log-likelihood as a function of the number of PPO updates for PPO, DPO and POE on the MNIST and CIFAR10 datasets, using learned reward functions of the form R(x, y) = 1 for y < x < z, and R(x, y) ≈ 1 -exp(-λx-y) for z ≤ x ≤ a, where λ is a hyperparameter. Both standard PPO (red) and Algorithm 1 (blue) use the same learning rate and λ, and have a maximum of 5 updates. We compare against POE (green), which does not use a learned reward function. As expected, using a learned reward function improves the policy's performance, with the benefits becoming more pronounced as the reward function becomes more complex.
the expected log-chance of winning the game, which we define as where p(y|win, b) is the true distribution of win probabilities given action b. The second evaluation metric we consider is success rate, defined as the proportion of successful actions (i.e., win actions) sampled. Figure 4 shows success rate and log-loss versus the number of PPOupdates for PPO, D PO and POE on theMNIST and
