--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a block-diagonal finetuning method that uses a factorization of the weight matrix to reduce the number of parameters. The BOFT method is based on the idea that the weight matrix can be decomposed into a product of two matrices, one of which is orthogonal. This decomposition is achieved by applying a Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization process to the weight matrix. The orthogonal matrix is then used to create a new weight matrix that is orthogonal to the original one. The BOFT method has been shown to be more efficient than OFT in terms of parameter efficiency. However, the BOFT method has not been evaluated in terms of generalization performance. In this paper, we evaluate the generalization performance of BOFT and OFT on the CIFAR-10 and ImageNet datasets. We find that BOFT achieves better generalization performance than OFT on both datasets. We also show that BOFT is more efficient than OFT on both the CIFAR-10 dataset and the ImageNet dataset. Our results indicate that BOFT is a promising method for improving the parameter efficiency of large models while maintaining or improving their generalization performance.

1. Introduction
The development of deep learning models has led to an explosion in the size of neural network weights. This has resulted in a significant increase in the number of parameters in deep learning models. As a result, training deep learning models has become increasingly challenging due to the large number of parameters involved. One approach to address this issue is to reduce the number of trainable parameters in a model. This can be achieved by reducing the number of parameters in the model itself or by reducing the number of trainable parameters used to train the model. One way to reduce the number of training parameters is to use a pretrained model as a base model and then finetune it to improve its performance on a particular task. This is known as finetuning. Finetuning can be done using a variety of methods, including weight sharing, weight normalization, and weight reparameterization. Weight sharing is a method that involves sharing the weights between different layers of the model. This can be done by using a weight matrix that is shared across all layers. Weight normalization is a method that involves normalizing the weights of each layer so that they have a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one. This can be done using a weight matrix that has a diagonal matrix with the mean and standard deviation of the weights. Weight reparameterization is a method that involves reparameterizing the weights of each neuron in the network using a new set of parameters. This can be done in a number of ways, including using a random initialization, using a fixed initialization, or using a gradient descent approach.
One way to reduce the number parameters in a model is to use a pretrained deep learning model as a base model. This can be accomplished by finetuning the pretrained model to improve its performance on the task at hand. This is known as fine-tuning. Fine-tuning can be done using various methods, including weight sharing and weight normalization. Weight sharing involves sharing the weights between layers of the model. Weight normalization involves normalizing the weights so that they have a zero mean and unit standard deviation. Fine-tuning can also be done using weight reparameterization. This involves reparameterizing the parameters of each neuron in the model using a new set of weights. This can be done either by using a random initialization or by using a fixed initialization. The advantage of using a pretrained model as a basis for finetuning is that it can be trained on a large amount of data, which can help improve the performance of the finetuned model. The disadvantage of using a pretrained model is that it may not be optimal for the specific task at hand. Therefore, it is important to evaluate the performance of finetuned models on the task at hand.
One way to evaluate the performance of a finetuned model is to compare it to a baseline model. The baseline model is typically a pretrained model that has been finetuned to perform well on the task at hand, but it may not be optimal. The performance of the finetuning model can be compared to the performance of the baseline model. This can be measured using metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. Another way to evaluate the performance is to compare the finetuned model to a model that has not been finetuned. This is known as the test set. The performance of the test set can be compared to the baseline model. This is known as a holdout test set. The advantage of using the test set is that it is not affected by the choice of baseline model. The disadvantage of this approach is that it requires a large amount of data to be available for testing. Therefore, it is not always feasible to use the test set for evaluation.
In this paper, we present a novel method for finetuning large models, called Orthogonal Butterfly (BO FT ), which is based on the idea of factorizing the weight matrix. The BOFT method uses a factorization of a weight matrix to reduce
