--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a block-diagonal finetuning method that uses a factorization of the weight matrix to reduce the number of parameters. The BOFT method is based on the idea that the weight matrix can be decomposed into two orthogonal matrices, one of which is a diagonal matrix. This decomposition is achieved by applying a Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization process to the weight matrix. The BOFT method has been shown to be more efficient than OFT in terms of parameter efficiency. However, the BOFT method is limited to finetuning a single layer of a deep neural network. In this paper, we present a generalization of the BOFT method to finetune multiple layers of a deep neural network, which we call the Multi-BOFT method. The Multi-BOFT method is based on a factorization of the matrix that represents the weight matrix of the entire network. The factorization is achieved by applying a block-diagonal Gram-Schmidt orthogonal transformation to the weight matrix of the network. The Multi-BOFF method is more efficient than the BOFT method in terms of parameter efficiency, and it can be applied to finetune multiple deep layers of a neural network. We also present a new method for finetuning a single deep layer of a neural network, which we refer to as the Single-BOFT method. This method is based on the same factorization as the Multi-BOFT, but it uses a different Gram-Schmidt orthogonal process. The Single-BOFT method is more efficient than OFT, and it can be used to finetune a single deep layer of the network. We also present an alternative method for finetuning the weight matrix of a single deep layer, which we refer to the Block-BOFT method. Block-BOFT is a block-diagonal version of the BOFT method, and it is more efficient than the Multi-BOFT and Single-BOFT methods. We evaluate the performance of the BOFT methods on several datasets, including ImageNet, CIFAR-10, and CIFAR-100. We find that the Multi-BOFT is the most efficient method for finetuning deep neural networks, and it achieves the best performance on all datasets. The Single-BOFF method is the second most efficient method, and it achieves the second best performance on ImageNet. The Block-BOFT method is the third most efficient method, and its performance is comparable to that of the Single-BOFT and Multi-BOFT methods. Overall, the BOFT methods are effective and efficient methods for finetuning deep networks.<|endoftext|>
