\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits"}

### If weights are ternary, why are activations kept at 8-bit integers instead of 1-bit?
Question:
The abstract mentions that every *parameter* is ternary, but Section 2 clarifies that the model uses "1.58-bit weights and 8-bit activations." Since the main argument of the paper is reducing computation to integer additions, why haven't the authors quantized the activations to 1-bit or ternary as well? Is there a theoretical limitation preventing stable training with 1-bit activations, or is it purely an empirical choice to maintain perplexity scores?
Answer:
The decision to keep activations at 8-bit integers while restricting weights to ternary values $\{-1, 0, 1\}$ in BitNet b1.58 is primarily an empirical design choice driven by the need to maintain model stability and perplexity scores comparable to full-precision baselines, rather than a strict theoretical impossibility of using lower-bit activations. As stated in Section 2, the model is explicitly trained with "1.58-bit weights and 8-bit activations," and the results in Section 3 confirm that this specific configuration allows the model to match FP16 LLaMA performance starting at the 3B parameter scale. If the authors had quantized activations to 1-bit or ternary values during training, the representational capacity of the network would likely have been insufficient to converge to the same level of accuracy without significant architectural changes or algorithmic innovations not covered in this work.

The distinction between weights and activations serves different optimization goals within the paper's framework. The ternary weights are the key enabler for the new computation paradigm described in the introduction, where matrix multiplications are reduced to integer additions, yielding massive energy savings (up to 71.4 times less energy for matrix multiplication on 7nm chips). This weight quantization is static after training and directly dictates the inference cost structure. In contrast, activations are dynamic values generated during the forward pass that must capture complex, non-linear feature interactions. The paper notes in Section 2 that the activation quantization function scales values per token to the range $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ to eliminate zero-point quantization, a method chosen for implementation simplicity and negligible performance impact. By retaining 8-bit precision for these dynamic values, the model preserves enough granularity to prevent error accumulation across layers, which is critical for deep networks like Transformers.

Furthermore, the choice of 8-bit activations already provides substantial practical benefits without compromising performance. In the "Discussion and Future Work" section under "Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs," the authors highlight that reducing activations from the standard 16 bits to 8 bits effectively doubles the context length achievable with fixed resources. They explicitly mention that further compressing these activations to 4 bits or lower is left as "future work," implying that while lower-bit activations are a desirable goal for further efficiency, they were not necessary to achieve the primary breakthrough of matching full-precision perplexity with ternary weights. Therefore, the 8-bit activation scheme represents a pragmatic balance: it secures the immediate gains in memory bandwidth and KV cache size required for long-context support while ensuring the model remains trainable and competitive with FP16 counterparts, whereas moving to 1-bit activations would risk destabilizing training and degrading the end-task performance that BitNet b1.58 successfully demonstrates.