\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### Why split rule generation into a 'prior knowledge' step and an 'example-based' step?
Question:
In Section 3.1, the reasoning instruction is divided into two steps: first, inferring causal relationships using general knowledge without examples, and second, deriving rules using those examples. I'm trying to understand the necessity of this split. If the examples are already provided in the prompt, why not just ask the LLM to generate the rules based on both the general knowledge and the examples simultaneously? What specifically does the 'first step' achieve that prevents the model from identifying spurious correlations?
Answer:
The split between the "prior knowledge" step and the "example-based" step in $\textsf{FeatLLM}$ is primarily a defense mechanism against overfitting and spurious correlations, which are chronic issues in few-shot learning. In a low-shot regime, where only a handful of labeled samples are available, there is a high probability that an irrelevant feature might coincidentally align with the target label across those few examples. If an LLM is asked to generate rules by looking at the general knowledge and the examples simultaneously, it may succumb to these "spurious correlations," treating a random coincidence in the small sample as a decisive rule.

By forcing the model to first infer causal relationships and tendencies using only its prior knowledge (Step 1), the framework establishes a logical anchor based on general domain expertise before the model ever sees the specific data points. For instance, if the task involves predicting heart failure, the model first identifies that "age" or "blood pressure" are generally relevant features. When it moves to the second step—deriving specific rules from examples—it does so through the lens of this pre-established causal logic. This ensures that the model prioritizes features that are both statistically present in the examples and conceptually relevant to the task, effectively filtering out uninformative columns that might otherwise seem important due to sheer coincidence.

This design is grounded in the paper's empirical findings. In the ablation studies, removing this first reasoning step ($\textsf{-Reasoning}$) led to a measurable drop in AUC, particularly when the number of shots was small, indicating that the prior knowledge step is most critical when data is scarcest. Furthermore, when the authors tested the model's robustness by adding completely irrelevant columns from a different dataset to the Heart dataset, $\textsf{FeatLLM}$ showed significantly less performance degradation than the baselines. This is because the model's insistence on prior-knowledge-driven reasoning prevented it from generating rules based on those noisy, irrelevant columns. Essentially, this two-step process acts as a conceptual filter, ensuring that the resulting binary features $\mathbf{z}_k^i$ are derived from meaningful patterns rather than random noise.