\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### Clarification on 'Feature Bagging' vs. 'Instance Bagging' in FeatLLM
Question:
The paper mentions using ensemble methods and 'feature bagging' to mitigate prompt size limitations (Introduction and Section 3.2). 

In standard Random Forests, bagging usually refers to sampling instances (rows) with replacement. However, here it seems like they are sampling features (columns) or subsets of rules because of LLM context window limits.

Specifically, does 'feature bagging' in FeatLLM mean:
1. Randomly selecting a subset of the original tabular columns ($d$ features) to include in the prompt for rule generation?
2. Or does it refer to selecting a subset of the *generated* rules after they are created?

The text says: 'repeatedly generating features in conjunction with feature bagging... select a subset of features or instances for each trial'. This phrasing is slightly ambiguous. If we only feed a subset of original columns to the LLM, how do we ensure that important features excluded from that specific trial's prompt don't get missed entirely in that iteration?
Answer:
In the context of FeatLLM, "feature bagging" specifically refers to your first interpretation: randomly selecting a subset of the original tabular columns (features) to include in the prompt for rule generation, rather than sampling from the set of rules after they have been generated.

The paper explicitly addresses this in Section 3.2 under "Ensembling with bagging," stating that the method adopts bagging to "select a subset of features or instances for each trial." This is done directly to mitigate the challenge of excessive prompt size, which arises when the number of features ($d$) in a dataset is large enough that serializing all feature descriptions and data instances exceeds the LLM's context window. By feeding only a random subset of these $d$ features into the LLM for a specific trial, the framework ensures that the prompt remains within manageable limits while still allowing the model to leverage its prior knowledge on different combinations of variables.

Regarding your concern about missing important features in a single iteration, FeatLLM relies on the ensemble mechanism to resolve this. The framework repeats the entire rule-generation process $T$ times (e.g., 20 trials), where each trial uses a different random subset of features and potentially a different ordering of few-shot examples. While any single trial might exclude a critical feature, the probability that an important feature is excluded across *all* trials is negligible. Consequently, robust rules involving that feature are likely to be generated in at least some trials where it was included in the prompt. The final prediction aggregates the probabilities from all $T$ trials, effectively combining these diverse "weak learners" into a strong ensemble. As noted in the paper, this approach ensures that even if individual trials suffer from incomplete feature coverage, the collective ensemble nullifies this impact by capturing relationships across the full feature space over multiple iterations.