\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### Is there a risk of circular dependency when using an LLM to parse its own generated rules?
Question:
In Section 3.2 ('Parsing rules for feature generation'), the authors acknowledge that LLM-generated rules have noisy syntax (e.g., writing 'greater than' instead of '>'). To solve this, they construct a new prompt asking an LLM to convert these natural language rules into executable Python code.

This feels like using an LLM to fix errors made by an LLM. If the initial rule generation contains semantic hallucinations or logical flaws, won't the second LLM call simply propagate or even amplify these errors rather than correcting them? Is there any mechanism mentioned for validating that the generated Python code actually implements the intended logic before execution?
Answer:
No, the paper explicitly argues against the risk of error amplification by implementing a dual-layer defense mechanism consisting of statistical weighting and ensemble aggregation, rather than relying solely on the second LLM call to correct semantic flaws. While the authors acknowledge that LLM-generated rules contain syntactic noise (e.g., using "greater than" instead of "$>$") and rely on a secondary LLM prompt to translate these natural language rules into executable Python code, they do not claim this translation step validates the *logic* of the rule itself. Instead, the system handles potential semantic hallucinations or logical errors through the downstream training phase described in Section 3.2. Once the rules are converted to binary features, a linear model with non-negative trainable weights ($\mathbf{w}_k$) is optimized via cross-entropy loss on the few-shot training data. Crucially, this optimization process allows the model to learn the importance of each rule; if a generated rule is logically flawed or semantically incorrect, its corresponding weight will naturally converge toward zero (or remain negligible), effectively filtering it out during inference as noted in the "Quality of features" analysis where irrelevant rules are discarded post-tuning.

Furthermore, the framework mitigates residual risks through an ensemble strategy involving bagging and high-temperature sampling. By repeating the entire rule-generation and parsing pipeline multiple times (e.g., $20$ trials), FeatLLM leverages the principle of self-consistency: while individual runs may produce hallucinated or erroneous rules, correct patterns tend to emerge consistently across different trials. The final prediction averages probabilities derived from these diverse weak learners, ensuring that isolated errors in specific rule generations do not dominate the final output. Therefore, rather than creating a circular dependency where one LLM blindly fixes another's mistakes, FeatLLM treats LLM outputs as a pool of candidate hypotheses that are rigorously validated and weighted by traditional machine learning algorithms trained on actual data labels.