\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### How does FeatLLM technically resolve the prompt size limit when dealing with datasets containing >100 features?
Question:
The paper mentions that existing LLM-based tabular methods fail when the serialized text length becomes too long due to a high number of features (e.g., the 'Communities' dataset with >100 attributes). The authors claim FeatLLM overcomes this using 'feature bagging'. 

However, I am confused about the mechanics here. If the LLM needs to understand the relationship between *all* features and the target to generate valid rules, doesn't selecting a subset of features for each prompt iteration mean the LLM might miss critical interactions involving features excluded from that specific batch? How does the ensemble of these partial views mathematically guarantee that no global interaction patterns are lost?
Answer:
FeatLLM resolves the prompt size limitation not by attempting to force all features into a single context window, but by reframing the problem as an ensemble of "weak learners," where each learner operates on a randomized subset of features (bagging). You are correct that a single prompt iteration cannot capture every possible global interaction if features are excluded; however, the framework relies on the statistical principle that while individual rule sets derived from partial feature subsets may be incomplete or biased toward local correlations, the aggregation of many such independent trials converges toward the true decision boundary.

Technically, FeatLLM implements this by running the rule-generation pipeline $T$ times (where $T=20$ in their experiments). In each trial, a random subset of features and/or training instances is selected to construct a compact prompt that fits within the LLM's token limits. The LLM then extracts a fixed number of rules (e.g., 10) based solely on this reduced view. Crucially, these rules are converted into binary features and fed into a simple linear model where weights $\mathbf{w}_k$ are learned via gradient descent to maximize class likelihood. Because this process is repeated with different random seeds and feature bags, distinct trials will discover different subsets of valid rules—some capturing interactions between Feature A and B in one trial, while another trial captures Feature C and D.

The "guarantee" against losing critical global patterns lies in this ensemble mechanism rather than any single prompt's completeness. As stated in the paper, if an important interaction involves two features that happen to be separated in a specific bagged subset, that specific trial will simply fail to generate that specific rule. However, across hundreds of combinations over $T$ trials, highly probable and meaningful feature interactions are statistically likely to appear together in enough subsets to be rediscovered by the LLM multiple times. The final prediction averages the probabilities from all $T$ weighted models. This approach leverages the LLM's self-consistency property: rules that reflect genuine underlying data logic tend to recur across different randomizations, while spurious or noise-driven rules remain isolated and get diluted during averaging. Thus, FeatLLM trades the depth of a single exhaustive analysis for the breadth of multiple shallow analyses, effectively bypassing the quadratic memory constraints of full-feature serialization while maintaining robustness through voting.