\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### Why parse LLM-generated rules into code using an LLM instead of using regex?
Question:
In Section 3.2 ('Parsing rules for feature generation'), the authors state: 'To address the challenges of parsing noisy text... we leverage the LLM itself... The generated code is executed using Python's exec() function.'

They mention that LLMs might substitute symbols like '$>$' with 'greater than'. While I understand this creates syntactic noise, I am confused why they chose to use another LLM call to generate Python code rather than using a robust natural language parser or regular expressions.

Is it because writing a regex for every possible natural language variation of comparison operators is too brittle? If so, doesn't this approach introduce a new failure mode where the *second* LLM call (the code generator) hallucinates invalid Python syntax or logic errors? How do they handle exceptions when `exec()` fails?
Answer:
The authors chose to use an LLM for parsing rather than regular expressions or rigid natural language parsers because the output of the first LLM call is semantically rich but syntactically noisy, making it extremely brittle to parse with static rules. As noted in Section 3.2, even with strict formatting instructions, the LLM may substitute standard symbols like `$>$` or `$<$` with natural language phrases such as "greater than" or "less than," or vary its phrasing in unpredictable ways. Writing a robust regular expression to cover every possible linguistic variation of comparison operators, logical conjunctions, and feature references would be prohibitively complex and fragile; a single deviation in the LLM's phrasing would cause the regex to fail.

By leveraging a second LLM call to translate these noisy natural language rules into executable Python code, the authors exploit the model's semantic understanding and its training on vast code corpora. This approach effectively treats the parsing task as a translation problem: "Here is a rule in natural language; write a Python function that implements it." While this does introduce a new failure mode where the code generator might hallucinate invalid syntax or logic, the authors mitigate this risk through their ensemble strategy described in Section 3.2. Since \textsf{FeatLLM} generates rules and parses them multiple times (using bagging and high-temperature sampling), individual parsing failures are treated as outliers. If `exec()` fails on a specific generated code snippet due to syntax errors, that specific trial simply contributes no valid features for that iteration, while other trials likely produce correct code. The final prediction aggregates results from many such trials, ensuring that occasional hallucinations do not derail the overall performance. This ensemble approach effectively filters out the noise introduced by both rule generation and code parsing, providing a more robust solution than attempting to force perfect syntactic consistency from the initial LLM output via rigid parsing rules.