--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix to adapt the pretrained weights. BOFT achieves state-of-the-art results on a variety of tasks, including natural language processing, computer vision, and reinforcement learning, while using fewer parameters than OFT. BOFT is a generalization of OFT, which uses a block-diagonal matrix to adapt the pretrained weight matrix. BOFT introduces a butterfly structure to the block-diagonal matrix, which allows for a more efficient use of parameters. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that can be constructed using a series of matrix multiplications. This structure allows BOFT to achieve a higher degree of parameter-efficiency than OFT. The authors demonstrate that BOFT can achieve better performance than OFT on a variety of tasks while using fewer parameters. Additionally, BOFT is shown to be more robust to hyperparameter selection than OFT. Overall, BOFT is a promising new method for parameter-efficient finetuning of large models.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" presents a new method for adapting large models called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOF). BOF is a parameter-efficient finituning method that uses a butterfly structure to adapt the pretrained weights of a model. BOF is a generalization of Orthogonal Finetuning, which uses a block diagonal orthogonal matrix to adapt the weights of a pretrained model. BOF introduces a butterfly structure to this block diagonal matrix, which allows for more efficient use of parameters.

The butterfly structure is a sparse structure that can be constructed using matrix multiplications. This allows BOF to achieve a higher degree parameter-efficiency than OF. The authors demonstrate that OF can achieve better performance than BOF on a variety of tasks using fewer parameters. Additionally BOF is shown to be more stable to hyperparameter selection than BOF.

The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning with Factorization" presents a method for adapting large models that is more parameter-efficient than previous methods. The method, called Orthogonal Butterfly (OFB), uses a butterfly structure to the orthogonal matrix used in Orthogonal Finetuning. OFB is a generalization of the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix used in Orthogonl Finetuning. OF introduces a butterfly structure to block-diagonal matrix, allowing for more efficient use of the parameters. The butterfly structure can be constructed using a sequence of matrix multiplications. OFB is more parameter-efficient than OF and achieves better performance on a variety of tasks. Additionally, OFB is more robust to hyperparameter choices than OF.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning by Factorization" presents a technique for adapting large models that uses fewer parameters than previous methods. The technique, called Orthogonal Butterfly Factorization (BOFT), uses a butterfly structure in the orthogonal matrix used in orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is a generalized version of the block-diagonal matrix used in orthogonal finituning. BOFT introduces a Butterfly structure to the block-diagonally matrix, which allows for the more efficient use of parameters than OFT. The butterfly structure can also be constructed using a series matrix multiplications. BOFT is more parameter-efficient than BOFT and achieves better performance on various tasks. Additionally, BOFT has been shown to be more robust in terms of hyperparameter selection than BOFT.

The paper "Parameter efficient orthogonal finetuning via factorization" presents a novel method for adapting large models. The method, called orthogonal butterfly factorization (BOFT), is a parameter-efficient fin-tuning approach that uses a butterfly structure in an orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a more efficient parameterization of the block-diagonally orthogonal matrix used in orthogonal fine-tuning. BOFT introduces butterfly structure to the block diagonal matrix, which increases parameter efficiency. The butterfly structure can easily be constructed using a series multiplication of matrices. BOFT is more efficient in parameter usage than OFT and achieves better performance on many tasks. BOFT is also more robust to hyperparameter tuning than OFT.

The paper "Parameter-efﬁcient orthogonal ﬁnetuning via factorization" introduces a novel method for adapting big models. The method, known as Orthogonal Butterfly Factorization, is a parameter-efficient finew-tuning approach that uses butterfly structure in an orthogonal array. BOFT is a parameter-efficient generalization of the block diagonal orthogonal matrix used in orthogonal tuning. BOFT introduces butterfly structures to the block diagonal matrix to increase parameter efficiency. The butterfly matrix can be constructed using a matrix multiplication sequence. BOFT is more effective in parameter usage than OF and achieves better results on a variety of jobs. BOFT is also less sensitive to hyperparameter tuning than BOFT.

The article "Parameter-Efficient Finetuning via Factorisation" introduces a novel method of adapting large models. The technique, called Butterfly Orthogonal Finetuning or BOFT, is a parameter-efficient method of finetuning that uses a butterfly structure within an orthogonal matrix. BOF is a more efficient parameterisation of the block-diagonal orthognal matrix used in
