--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is able to finetune text-to-image diffusion models without losing semantic generation ability. The method is simple to implement and perform well in practice. It achieves better controllability than LoRA and other state-of-the-art methods. Most importantly, OFT does not introduce additional inference overhead.

Why OFT Works?

We start with some preliminaries of OFT. OFT is able to finet tune text-to-image diffusion models by updating neuron weights with an additive low-rank matrix. It achieves stronger controllability than Lo RA and other methods. To understand why OFT works, we decompose the question into two smaller ones: (1) why we can finetune text-toimage diffusion models with an additive low-ranks matrix? and (2) why OFT performs better than LoRA and other methods?

For the first question, we decompose the problem into two smaller ones: why we can finet tune the weight matrix and why the low-rank matrix works. For the first question, finetuning the weight matrix is intuitive, as it has been used in many finetuning methods. For the second question, we decompose it into why the low-rank property can effectively finetune the neural network and why the matrix should be additive.

For the first sub-question, we draw inspiration from how hyperspherical energy characterizes generalization (Li et al., 2018; Li and Liang, 2021). Hyperspherical energy characterizes the regularity of neuron weights on the unit hypersphere. The smaller the hyperspherical energy is, the more regular the neuron weights are. Interestingly, the hyperspherical energy of a fully connected layer is equal to the sum of the hyperspherical energy of all neurons in the fully connected layer. This suggests that finetuning the neuron weights with a small hyperspherical energy will not destroy the regularity of other neurons. We further notice that the rank of a fully connected layer characterizes its regularity (Li et al.,., 2018; Lin et al., 2019). A smaller rank means a stronger regularity. Therefore, finetuning the neuron weight matrix with a low-rank matrix can effectively preserve the regularity of other neuron weights. For the second sub-question, we decompose it why the matrix should be low-rank and why the matrix should to be additive.

For the second sub-question, the low-rank property is intuitive, as it can easily be optimized with a block-diagonal structure (Zhang et al., 2022). For the why-the-matrix-should-be-additive sub-question, we decomposed it into why the matrix should be subtractive and why the matrix should not be subtractive.

For the why-the-matrix-shoul-be-subtractive sub-question, we draw inspirations from how hyperspherical energy and rank characterize generalization and regularity. We notice that the block-diagonal structure can easily guarantee a low rank, but it may destroy the hyperspherical energy and destroy the generalization and regularity of neurons. To address this shortcoming, we propose to use an additive matrix to finetune the neuron weights, as the additive matrix can easily guarantee a small hyperspherical energy. For the why-the-matrices-should-not-be-subtractive sub-question. we propose to use an orthogonal matrix to finetune neurons, as the orthogonal matrix can easily guarantee a zero hyperspherical energy.

To summarize, OFT works because it finetunes the neuron weights with an additive orthogonal matrix, which can easily guarantee a small Hyperspherical energy and zero hyperspherical energy. This is also the key difference to LoRA, which uses an additive low-rank matrices to finetune neurons.

Generalized Orthogonal Finetuning

We introduce a generalized orthogonal finetuning method, called COFT, which can further improve controllability. Concretely, COFT uses an orthogonal matrix to fineteune the neuron weights, and it additionally finetunes the bias with a low-rank bias matrix. COFT can also be viewed as finetuning neurons with a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix. COFT improves controllability with a smaller number of trainable parameters. The number of trainable parameters for COFT is the product of the size of orthogonal matrix and the size of bias matrix, while the number of trainable parameters for OFT is the size of orthogonal matrix plus the size of bias matrix. If we use the same size for the orthogonal matrix and the bias matrix, then the number of trainable parameters of COFT will be smaller than OFT. In this way, COFT can improve controllability with fewer trainable parameters.

Re-scaled Orthogonal Finetuning


The conventional OFT uses an orthogonal matrix to update neuron weights, and it achieves good controllability. We further propose a re-scaled orthogonal finetuning method (ROFT), which improves controllability with an additional learnable scale coefficient for each neuron. ROFT can also be viewed a combination of OFT and LoRA, as it uses both orthogonal
