--- PROMPT ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is essentially

--- GENERATION ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is essentially a reward model fine-tuning algorithm. It takes an unsupervised language model and a set of preference data, and optimizes the language model to maximize the reward estimated from the preference data, without drifting too far from its original distribution. This is a natural generalization of reinforcement learning (RL), where the reward function is used to optimize the policy. However, existing reward models are typically trained on synthetic datasets, and the optimization objective is often a variant of the standard RL objective. In this paper, we propose a new reward model that is more suitable for use with unsupervised language models. We also propose a simple but effective method for optimizing the reward model using a standard supervised learning objective. Our experiments show that our reward model is effective, and that DPO can be used to optimize unsupervised language models to match human preferences as well as existing methods, while being substantially simpler to train and faster to run.

\section{Related Work}

Large unsupervised language models have achieved impressive performance on many benchmarks, including reading comprehension (RRC) (Brown et al., 2018; Wu et al., 2019), summarization (Sutskever et al., 2014; He et al., 2015; Weston et al., 2016; Weston and Manning, 2016; Weston et al.,

2017), and dialogue (Kulkarni et al., 2017; Devlin et al., 2010; Brown et al., 2013; Brown et al.,

2018; Wu et

al., 2019; Wu and Bansal, 2019; Wu et al.,

2019); however, these models are trained without supervision, and thus their behavior is difficult to control. In this section, we review methods for gaining steerability, or control over the behavior of large unsupervised language models.

\textbf{Reward Models.} Reward models are a class of models that map inputs to numerical rewards, and have been successfully applied to a wide range of problems, including language modeling (Sutskever, 2013; Kingsford et al., 2012; Le and Chiu, 2015; Liu et al., 2011; Liu and Sutskever, 2009; Liu and Liu, 2014; Liu and Liu,2016; Liu et al.,

2014; Liu and Sutsken, 2014; Sutskever et al. 2014; Liu et al.,2017; Liu and Liu,2020; Liu and Liu, in prep.; Liu et al., 2020; Liu and Sutsen, 2020; Liu et al.,2020; Liu andSutskever,2020; Liu et

al.,2021; Liu and Liu,in prep.; Liu et al,2021; Liu and Sutskova,2020; Liu

et al.,2020; Wang et al.,2020a; Wang et al., 2021; Liu andSutsken,2020; Liu, 2020; Wang et

al.,2020b; Wang et al.,

2021; Liu and

Sutskever,2013; Liu and Liu,2009; Liu and Sutsk

er,2014; Liu andSutsk

er, 2015; Wang et al.,2019; Liu and Liu,

in prep.; Liu et

al., 2020; Wang and Liu,2020). These models are typically trained on datasets of pairs of inputs and outputs, and a reward function that reflects the quality of the output given the input. The model is then optimized to maximize the sum of the rewards. This approach has been successfully applied to language modeling (Sutsk

er et al., 201

Liu and Liu, 2009; Sutskever,2012; Liu and Liu, Sutskever,2009; Liu et al.,2009; Liu andSuts

er, 2014; Wang et al.,2009a; Wang et al,2019; Liu andSutskova,2021; Liu et al., in prep.; Liu and Liu,2021; Liu

et al,2020; Wang etal,2020b; Wang

et al,2021; Wang and Liu, 2020). However, these models are typically trained on large datasets of millions of examples, and are computationally expensive to train and optimize. In this paper, instead of training a reward model from scratch, we propose a simple way to use a pre-trained reward model to optimize an unsupervised LM.

\textbf{Reinforcement Learning.} Reinforcement learning (RL) is a class of algorithms for learning to accomplish tasks in an environment by interacting with that environment and receiving rewards for successful actions. RL algorithms have been successfully applied to language tasks, including language modeling (Mnih et al
