\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### How should I interpret the GPT-4 ordering effect in evaluations?
Question:
The QLoRA paper uses GPT-4 to evaluate chatbot responses and finds "a significant ordering effect with GPT-4 increasing the score of the response occurring earlier in the prompt."

This seems like a serious methodological concern. If GPT-4 systematically prefers the first response it sees, how can we trust the Elo rankings derived from GPT-4 comparisons? The paper recommends "reporting the mean score over both orders" but that seems like a band-aid fix.

More fundamentally: if GPT-4 has this bias toward the first response, does this mean:
1. GPT-4 evaluations are fundamentally unreliable for model comparison?
2. The Kendall Tau of $\tau=0.43$ between human and GPT-4 rankings is artificially inflated or deflated by this ordering bias?
3. Should we just always randomize presentation order and average, or is there a better fix?

The paper also notes GPT-4 assigns higher scores to its own outputs (Elo 1348 vs 1176 from humans). How do we disentangle whether this is true superiority or just self-preference?
Answer:
The ordering effect you've identified is indeed a real concern, but the QLoRA paper provides evidence that GPT-4 evaluations—while imperfect—remain useful when proper controls are applied.

The paper reports a Kendall Tau of $\tau=0.43$ and Spearman correlation of $r=0.55$ between GPT-4 and human rankings at the *system level*. Crucially, the Elo ranking procedure already incorporates randomness to mitigate ordering effects: the tournament is repeated 10,000 times with different random seeds controlling which model pairs compete first. This averaging over many random tournament orderings helps dilute any systematic first-position advantage that might affect individual pairwise comparisons.

Regarding whether the correlation is artificially inflated or deflated: the ordering bias works in a consistent direction (favoring earlier responses), so it could potentially compress differences between models if one model consistently appears first. However, the random tournament seeding means each model appears in both positions approximately equally often across the 10,000 repetitions, so the bias largely cancels out in the aggregate Elo scores.

The self-preference issue (GPT-4 rating itself at Elo 1348 vs. humans rating it at 1176) is more concerning because it suggests GPT-4 may be evaluating based on features that correlate with its own generation style rather than true quality. This $\sim 20\%$ inflated win probability indicates the self-preference is substantial and systematic, not just noise.

The paper's authors acknowledge these limitations explicitly: they note "model-based evaluation while providing a cheap alternative to human-annotation also has its uncertainties" and call for "future work to examine the presence of potential biases in automated evaluation systems as well as possible mitigation strategies."

For practical use, the recommended approach—randomizing presentation order and averaging—is more than a band-aid when combined with the tournament structure. However, the self-preference bias and moderate example-level agreement (Fleiss $\kappa=0.25$) suggest GPT-4 evaluations should be treated as one signal among several rather than a definitive ground truth. The correlation with human judgments is meaningful but not strong enough to fully replace human evaluation for high-stakes comparisons.