\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits"}

### How exactly does SORTFLOW's 'in-chip communication' optimize the memory transfer for sparse weights compared to full precision models?
Question:
The paper claims that 1-bit LLMs enable better in-chip communication because they only store weights in SRAM (or on-chip memory) rather than transferring them from DRAM for every operation like full-precision LINEAR layers do. I see the argument that you load sparse tensors once and update them, but in a device like LINEAR which selects one existing weight per column at every step, isn't that still technically accessing weight memory many times (e.g., once per head/token)? How is accessing those weights inherently more expensive in terms of power and latency than accessing dense weights in SRAM? Is it primarily about the elimination of the DRAM bottleneck during initialization versus retrieval?
Answer:
The optimization of in-chip communication in the 1.58-bit LLM architecture described by BitNet b1.58 addresses the fundamental memory-hierarchy bottleneck prevalent in standard full-precision models, specifically the cost of moving weights between DRAM (system memory) and on-chip SRAM (SRAM). In a conventional full-precision ($\text{FP16}$) model, the weights are massive in size (e.g., a 70B parameter model requires roughly 112 GB of floating-point memory), which exceeds the capacity of typical SRAM found on accelerators like GPUs. Consequently, during inference, the system must frequently transfer the entire weight matrix from slow, high-volume but low-bandwidth DRAM into fast, low-volume SRAM for every forward pass. This "weight loading" process dominates latency because it requires reading large datasets repeatedly across wide data buses.

In contrast, the 1.58-bit LLM drastically reduces the weight memory footprint. By quantizing all weights to ternary values $\{-1, 0, 1\}$ as defined by the $ \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1) $ quantization function in the paper, a parameter that would previously require 2 or more bits is stored in at most 1.58 bits. This reduction lowers the total parameter size by an order of magnitude or more. Critically for hardware implementation, this reduction enables a specific architectural choice: storing these compressed weights directly within SRAM rather than fetching them from DRAM prior to computation. As stated in the abstract and Section I, "The process of transferring model parameters from DRAM to the memory of an on-chip accelerator... can be expensive," whereas with 1-bit models, "This can significantly reduce the cost and time of loading weights from DRAM."

Regarding your specific concern about sparse tensor access patterns similar to LINEAR layers where a single weight is selected per token per head: while both architectures involve selecting specific elements during inference, the cost difference lies entirely in *where* those elements reside. In a standard LINEAR layer with $\text{FP16}$ weights selected dynamically during training or inference (often called sparse matrix-vector multiplication), those weights still exist as large arrays that likely reside in off-chip memory or require serial access through bandwidth-constrained channels if spread across large tile banks. Even if pre-loaded into SRAM, searching or managing such sparseensembles can still incur overhead related to metadata management and non-coalesced memory accesses if not perfectly optimized beforehand.

However, BitNet b1.58 shifts this paradigm by simplifying the storage abstraction itself. Because every weight is structurally constrained to $\{-1, 0, 1\}$, it can be efficiently packed into bit-aligned block storage structures like "bit-level sparseness mapping" or simple concatenated bit-planes within high-bandwidth SRAM fabrics. The paper notes that this enables "almost no multiplication operations," relying instead on integer additions which are inherently cheaper and faster to execute on dedicated logic units when inputs are binary/ternary. This allows hardware designers to view a block of bits as a dense conceptual matrix that can be streamed contiguously through SRAM ports without decompressing or shuffling data between memory levels during the critical dot-product phases (the equivalent of accessing "existing weights"). Furthermore, because GitNet b1.58 removes biases and uses simpler lateral components like RMSNorm as described in Section II ("LLaMA-alike Components"), it reduces constant overheads that force stateful management of auxiliary data structures that might otherwise necessitate additional DRAM fetches for bias vectors or scale factors that float-point models handle frequently with high precision updates. Thus, the optimization is not merely about retrieval frequency but about enabling a fundamental shift where compliance with ternary constraints allows weights to reside permanently on-chip in SRAM structures optimized for bit-parallelism, eliminating the need for repetitive DRAM-server interactions inherent in higher-precision matrix operations on general-purpose accelerators.