\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits"}

### What prevents directly encoding floating-point values across {-2, -1, 0, 1, 2} into ZNIST's ternary latent space without massive loss of expressivity?
Question:
The intuition given is that by encoding floating-point vectors into SIGN-Magnitude latent space and then converting those vectors back via ZNIST to ternary vectors with {-2,-1,0,1,2}, we only incur loss on floating-point addition during latent processing. But why doesn't this approach simply work better with BINARY latent space (0 or 1 per dimension per token) instead of SIGN-Magnitude? If SIGN-Magnitude adds extra dimensions compared to BINARY (which only needs one bit per feature + sign), shouldn't SPECIFIC TO TOKEN activation loss be significantly lower with BINARY? Why is ZNIST specifically designed around SIGN-Magnitude here?
Answer:
The primary reason \text{sign-magnitude} is preferred in ZNIST for latent processing over pure binary, despite the intuition that binary requires fewer dimensions, lies in the specific mechanics of gradient propagation and how activation values are reconstructed from ternary densifying codes. When recovering primitive values from ternary residues, \text{sign-magnitude} provides a more stable and lossless inference of the original signal compared to the ambiguity that can arise in pure binary representations for unattended features.

\text{Sign-magnitude} is critical because it explicitly models the directionality of changes in activation space. The ZNIST design leverages the fact that most training inputs have a mean close to zero, allowing latent vectors to most frequently occupy regions maintainable by dense three-element signatures from sparse ternary residue values. In this regime, \text{sign-magnitude} serves as a direct compression without negative-bin coefficients, directly dictating precision performance without instigating spurious \text{\-(zero-point)} latency during training. In contrast, binary encoding introduces significant representation variance: while a unary-heavy density allows some values to be propagated via false-length re-computation without topology collapses, binary resolution often lacks the explicit directional head required for greedy search optimization without introducing significant representational variance or ambiguity in gradient updates.

Furthermore, quantization noise introduced by \text{sign-magnitude} can be effectively managed through count-based smoothing at inference time, which ensures that rare inputs with complex features do not disproportionately degrade model performance. This aligns with the paper's finding that maintaining low bit widths requires careful handling of the activation manifold; by allowing zeros (via ternary densifying), BitNet b1.58 achieves greater mobility for information in feature space than binary alone could provide within similar constraints. The explicit inclusion of zero in ternary weights also facilitates better feature filtering compared to binary-only systems, though this remains a key architectural detail distinct from the core latent space decision favoring \text{sign-magnitude} for its balance of sparsity and gradient reliability during backpropagation through dense blocks. Ultimately, while binary offers theoretical dimension reduction for fixed features, \text{sign-magnitude} preserves the directional integrity necessary for maintaining perplexity and task accuracy across scale sizes as described in the results section of the paper.