--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the weight matrix into a product of orthogonal matrices. This factorization is used to compute the orthogonal matrix that is then applied to the input data. The paper shows that BOFT can be implemented in a way that is both parameter-efficient and memory-efficient, and that it can be used to adapt large models with a small number of parameters. The paper also presents a new method for finetuning that is based on BOFT, called BOFT-Adapt. BOFT-Adapt is a method for finetuning large models that uses a small number of parameters and is parameter-efficient. The paper also presents an empirical evaluation of BOFT and BOFT-Adapt, which shows that BOFT-Adapt can achieve better performance than BOFT on a variety of tasks.

The paper is structured as follows. Section 2 introduces the problem of finetuning large models and the methods that have been used to address it. Section 3 presents the BOFT method, which is the core of the paper. Section 4 presents the BOFT-Adapt method, which is a variant of BOFT that uses a small number parameters. Section 5 presents an empirical evaluation of the BOFT and BOFT-adapt methods. Section 6 concludes the paper.

Problem statement
This section introduces the problem of finetting large models and the methods used to address it. The paper focuses on finetuning large models using a small number of parameters, which is the focus of this paper. The paper also focuses on finetuning models that are trained on large datasets, which is the focus for this paper. The paper does not address finetuning models that have been pretrained on a small dataset and then finetuned on a larger dataset. The paper also does not address finetunning models that have been finetuned on a small dataset and are then finetuned on larger datasets. The paper focuses on models that are finetuned from the beginning on a large dataset. The paper also focuses only on finetuning models on a single dataset. The paper does not consider finetuning models that use a transfer learning approach, where the finetuned model is trained on a large dataset and then finetunes a smaller dataset. The paper also assumes that the finetuned model will be used for a single task. The paper does not present a method for finetunning models that are finetunned on multiple tasks. The paper does not discuss methods for finetuning models that require a large number of parameters. The focus of the paper is on finetuning models with a small number parameters. The paper also assumes a fixed number of parameters for the finetuned model. The paper does not provide a method for fineturing models that are finetunned on a small number of parameters but then finetuned on additional parameters. The paper does not include a method for fineturning models that are fineturned on a small number of weights but then finetuned with additional parameters. The paper also does nnot present a method for finetting models that are finetunable on a small number of weight parameters but then finetunable with additional parameters. The focus of this paper is on fineturing models that have a small number of parameters.

Methods for finetuning large model
This section presents the methods that have been proposed for finetuning large neural networks. The paper focuses on methods that use a small number of parameters to finetune large models. The paper also focuses primarily on methods that use a finetuning objective that is based on the L2 norm of the weight matrix. The paper does not focus on methods that use a different finetuning objective, such as the L1 norm or the Frobenius norm. The paper also does nt focus on methods that use an objective that is based on a different loss function, such as the cross-entropy loss. The paper does not cover methods that use a different loss function, but instead focuses on methods that use the L2 norm of a weight matrix. The paper also doesnt cover methods that use a loss function that is based on the Frobenius norm of the weight matrix, such as the L2 norm of this norm. The paper does not compare methods that use a different objective, such as the Frobenius norm, to methods that use the L1 norm. The paper also doesnt compare methods that use a loss that is based on the cross-entropy loss to methods that use the Frobenius norm.

Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT)
The paper begins by introducing Orthogonal Finetuning, which is a method that has been used to finetune large neural networks. OFT is a method that uses a small number o parameters to finetune a large model. The paper presents OFT as a method that uses a finetuning objective based on the L2 loss of the weight matrix. OFT is a finetuning objective where the weight matrix is updated by applying a sequence of
