----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He was sentenced under the Armed Career Criminal Act to 292 months imprisonment, within the advisory guidelines range as determined by the district court.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after a jury convicted Justin Cutbank of being a felon in possession of a firearm under 18 U.S.C. §§ 922(g)(1) and 924(e), he was sentenced under the Armed Career Criminal Act.
target:  the Armed Career Criminal Act
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after a jury convicted Justin Cutbank of being a felon in possession of a firearm under 18 U.S.C. §§ 922(g)(1) and 924(e), he was sentenced under

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He was sentenced under the Armed Career Criminal Act to 292 months imprisonment, within the advisory guidelines range as determined by the district court.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the jury convicted Justin Cutbank of being a felon in possession of a firearm and the district court sentenced him under the Armed Career Criminal Act, the court imposed 292 months imprisonment
target:  292 months imprisonment
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the jury convicted Justin Cutbank of being a felon in possession of a firearm and the district court sentenced him under the Armed Career Criminal Act, the court imposed

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He appeals his conviction and sentence, arguing the district court committed multiple evidentiary and procedural errors that deprived him of a fair trial and improperly applied a USSG § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) sentencing enhancement that increased the advisory guidelines range.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank before the Eighth Circuit, Cutbank appealed his conviction and sentence after arguing that the district court made evidentiary and procedural errors and also misapplied a sentencing enhancement that increased his advisory Guidelines range, namely a USSG § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) sentencing enhancement.
target:  a USSG § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) sentencing enhancement
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank before the Eighth Circuit, Cutbank appealed his conviction and sentence after arguing that the district court made evidentiary and procedural errors and also misapplied a sentencing enhancement that increased his advisory Guidelines range, namely

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He appeals his conviction and sentence, arguing the district court committed multiple evidentiary and procedural errors that deprived him of a fair trial and improperly applied a USSG § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) sentencing enhancement that increased the advisory guidelines range.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank before the Eighth Circuit, Cutbank argued on appeal from his felon-in-possession conviction and sentence that the district court's multiple evidentiary and procedural errors deprived him of a fair trial
target:  a fair trial
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank before the Eighth Circuit, Cutbank argued on appeal from his felon-in-possession conviction and sentence that the district court's multiple evidentiary and procedural errors deprived him of

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During the night of November 19-20, 2020, after drinking and using methamphetamine, Cutbank awakened his girlfriend, D.F., pointed a gun at her face, and directed her into a closet, making paranoid accusations about “listening devices” in the home and people outside waiting to harm him.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the drug Cutbank had used before he awakened his girlfriend, D.F., during the night of November 19-20, 2020, was methamphetamine
target:  methamphetamine
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the drug Cutbank had used before he awakened his girlfriend, D.F., during the night of November 19-20, 2020, was

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During the night of November 19-20, 2020, after drinking and using methamphetamine, Cutbank awakened his girlfriend, D.F., pointed a gun at her face, and directed her into a closet, making paranoid accusations about “listening devices” in the home and people outside waiting to harm him.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after Cutbank pointed a gun at his girlfriend, D.F., at her face during the night of November 19-20, 2020, he directed her into a closet
target:  into a closet
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after Cutbank pointed a gun at his girlfriend, D.F., at her face during the night of November 19-20, 2020, he directed her

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He kept D.F. in the closet at gunpoint for what D.F. testified felt like hours, threatening her life and striking her across the face with the gun.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during the November 19-20, 2020 incident in which Cutbank kept D.F. in a closet at gunpoint, D.F. testified that the ordeal lasted for what D.F. testified felt like hours.
target:  for what D.F. testified felt like hours
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during the November 19-20, 2020 incident in which Cutbank kept D.F. in a closet at gunpoint, D.F. testified that the ordeal lasted

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He kept D.F. in the closet at gunpoint for what D.F. testified felt like hours, threatening her life and striking her across the face with the gun.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during the November 19-20, 2020 incident in which Cutbank kept D.F. in a closet at gunpoint and threatened her life, he was also described as striking her across the face with the gun
target:  striking her across the face with the gun
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during the November 19-20, 2020 incident in which Cutbank kept D.F. in a closet at gunpoint and threatened her life, he was also described as

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At some point, Cutbank ordered D.F. to rouse others sleeping in the house, including her two teenage sons and her housemate, C.F.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during the events of November 19-20, 2020, Cutbank ordered D.F. to rouse others sleeping in the house.
target:  others sleeping in the house
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during the events of November 19-20, 2020, Cutbank ordered D.F. to rouse

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The police also received a call from a house a half mile from D.F.’s residence reporting that a man was in the garage and refused to leave.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after D.F. contacted the police, they received a separate call from another house located a half mile
target:  a half mile
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after D.F. contacted the police, they received a separate call from another house located

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cutbank resisted when officers attempted to detain him, biting an officer in the face and neck and grabbing his gun.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after police found Cutbank at another house following his flight from D.F.'s residence, the opinion states that when officers attempted to detain him and he resisted, he was grabbing his gun
target:  his gun
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after police found Cutbank at another house following his flight from D.F.'s residence, the opinion states that when officers attempted to detain him and he resisted, he was grabbing

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officers searching the path Cutbank likely would have taken between D.F.’s home and the garage found D.F.’s cell phone, a butcher-style knife, and a Marlin .22 caliber rifle with a sawed-off barrel and stock. DNA on the gun matched Cutbank. At trial, D.F. and C.F. identified the weapon as one they saw Cutbank with before that night.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after officers searched the path they believed Cutbank took between D.F.'s home and the garage and recovered a Marlin .22 caliber rifle with a sawed-off barrel and stock, the evidence on that weapon that matched Cutbank was DNA on the gun.
target:  DNA on the gun
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after officers searched the path they believed Cutbank took between D.F.'s home and the garage and recovered a Marlin .22 caliber rifle with a sawed-off barrel and stock, the evidence on that weapon that matched Cutbank was

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officers searching the path Cutbank likely would have taken between D.F.’s home and the garage found D.F.’s cell phone, a butcher-style knife, and a Marlin .22 caliber rifle with a sawed-off barrel and stock. DNA on the gun matched Cutbank. At trial, D.F. and C.F. identified the weapon as one they saw Cutbank with before that night.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after officers searching the path between D.F.’s home and the garage found a Marlin .22 caliber rifle with a sawed-off barrel and stock, the opinion states: At trial, D.F. and C.F. identified the weapon as one they saw Cutbank with before that night.
target:  At trial, D.F. and C.F. identified the weapon as one they saw Cutbank with before that night.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after officers searching the path between D.F.’s home and the garage found a Marlin .22 caliber rifle with a sawed-off barrel and stock, the opinion states:

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The jury convicted Cutbank of the charged felon in possession offense and of being previously convicted of at least three violent felonies, triggering the enhanced penalty provisions of § 924(e).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the jury convicted Cutbank of the offense, aside from finding that he had at least three prior violent felony convictions under 18 U.S.C. § 924(e), and that offense was the charged felon in possession offense
target:  charged felon in possession offense
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the jury convicted Cutbank of the offense, aside from finding that he had at least three prior violent felony convictions under 18 U.S.C. § 924(e), and that offense was the

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cutbank raises a series of evidentiary and procedural issues, providing no cases and almost no analysis to support his arguments.
fact: In the case United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank raises a series of evidentiary and procedural issues.
target:  a series of evidentiary and procedural issues
probe: In the case United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank raises

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Before trial, Cutbank filed a motion to prevent D.F. and C.F. from testifying that they had previously observed him with the sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle, arguing this would be propensity evidence violating Rule 404(b) of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, before trial Cutbank moved to bar testimony from D.F. and C.F. under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b), and D.F. and C.F. said they had previously seen Cutbank with the sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle
target:  the sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, before trial Cutbank moved to bar testimony from D.F. and C.F. under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b), and D.F. and C.F. said they had previously seen Cutbank with

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court agreed with the government that this would be intrinsic evidence relevant to proving the possession charge and demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the district court concluded that testimony from D.F. and C.F. that they had previously seen Cutbank with a sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle would be intrinsic evidence relevant to proving the possession charge and demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
target:  intrinsic evidence relevant to proving the possession charge and demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the district court concluded that testimony from D.F. and C.F. that they had previously seen Cutbank with a sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle would be

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court agreed with the government that this would be intrinsic evidence relevant to proving the possession charge and demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the district court ruled before trial that testimony from D.F. and C.F. about previously seeing Cutbank with a sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle was intrinsic evidence rather than Rule 404(b) propensity evidence, and the evidence was relevant to demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
target:  continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the district court ruled before trial that testimony from D.F. and C.F. about previously seeing Cutbank with a sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle was intrinsic evidence rather than Rule 404(b) propensity evidence, and the evidence was relevant to demonstrating

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Prior possession of a firearm is directly relevant to proving later possession of that same weapon because it helps establish ownership or control of the weapon.” United States v. Battle, 774 F.3d 504, 511 (8th Cir. 2014), cert. denied, 575 U.S. 978 (2015).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, in addressing whether prior observations of Cutbank with the sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle were intrinsic evidence rather than Rule 404(b) propensity evidence, the court noted that prior possession of a firearm is directly relevant to proving later possession of that same weapon
target:  later possession of that same weapon
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, in addressing whether prior observations of Cutbank with the sawed-off Marlin .22 caliber rifle were intrinsic evidence rather than Rule 404(b) propensity evidence, the court noted that prior possession of a firearm is directly relevant to proving

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At trial, D.F. testified she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle a “handful of times” before the incident at issue.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, D.F. testified at trial that before the incident at issue she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle
target:  the sawed-off rifle
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, D.F. testified at trial that before the incident at issue she had seen Cutbank with

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At trial, D.F. testified she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle a “handful of times” before the incident at issue.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, where the district court allowed testimony as intrinsic evidence on the possession charge rather than excluding it under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b), D.F. testified she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle a “handful of times” before the incident at issue.
target:  a “handful of times” before the incident at issue.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, where the district court allowed testimony as intrinsic evidence on the possession charge rather than excluding it under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b), D.F. testified she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Before trial, Cutbank also requested that the jury be instructed, to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause issues, that it could not consider D.F.’s statements to police as substantive evidence of Cutbank’s actions until D.F. herself testified to the events.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, before trial Cutbank asked for a limiting jury instruction about D.F.’s statements to police to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause issues.
target:  to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause issues
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, before trial Cutbank asked for a limiting jury instruction about D.F.’s statements to police

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Before trial, Cutbank also requested that the jury be instructed, to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause issues, that it could not consider D.F.’s statements to police as substantive evidence of Cutbank’s actions until D.F. herself testified to the events.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, before trial Cutbank asked for a jury instruction to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause issues, requesting that until the declarant testified to the events, the jury could not treat the declarant's statements to police as substantive evidence of Cutbank's actions, and that declarant was D.F. herself
target:  D.F. herself
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, before trial Cutbank asked for a jury instruction to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause issues, requesting that until the declarant testified to the events, the jury could not treat the declarant's statements to police as substantive evidence of Cutbank's actions, and that declarant was

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government argued the statements would establish the context for police officer actions and their knowledge at the time, that the officers’ testimony would not overstep hearsay rules, and that a later instruction from the bench, if needed, would be customary and sufficient.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank sought a pretrial jury instruction to limit how the jury could use D.F.'s statements to police because of hearsay and Confrontation Clause concerns, and the government's argument was that those statements would establish the context for police officer actions and their knowledge at the time
target:  police officer actions and their knowledge at the time
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank sought a pretrial jury instruction to limit how the jury could use D.F.'s statements to police because of hearsay and Confrontation Clause concerns, and the government's argument was that those statements would establish the context for

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government argued the statements would establish the context for police officer actions and their knowledge at the time, that the officers’ testimony would not overstep hearsay rules, and that a later instruction from the bench, if needed, would be customary and sufficient.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after Cutbank sought a pretrial jury instruction to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause problems from D.F.'s statements to police, the government argued that if needed, what would be customary and sufficient was a later instruction from the bench.
target:  a later instruction from the bench
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after Cutbank sought a pretrial jury instruction to avoid hearsay and Confrontation Clause problems from D.F.'s statements to police, the government argued that if needed, what would be customary and sufficient was

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “We review a district court’s decision not to give a limiting instruction for abuse of discretion.” United States v. Bennett, 765 F.3d 887, 899 (8th Cir. 2014), cert. denied, 574 U.S. 1180 (2015).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the case cited for the abuse-of-discretion standard governing appellate review of a district court’s decision not to give a limiting instruction is United States v. Bennett, 765 F.3d 887, 899 (8th Cir. 2014), cert. denied, 574 U.S. 1180 (2015).
target:  United States v. Bennett, 765 F.3d 887, 899 (8th Cir. 2014), cert. denied, 574 U.S. 1180 (2015).
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the case cited for the abuse-of-discretion standard governing appellate review of a district court’s decision not to give a limiting instruction is

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court “need not instruct the jury regarding each item of evidence at the time the evidence is admitted if the court provides an appropriate instruction at the close of trial.” Id.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," when reviewing whether the district court should have given a limiting instruction at the time evidence was admitted, the court said it need not instruct the jury regarding each item of evidence at the time the evidence is admitted if the court provides an appropriate instruction at the close of trial
target:  regarding each item of evidence at the time the evidence is admitted if the court provides an appropriate instruction at the close of trial
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," when reviewing whether the district court should have given a limiting instruction at the time evidence was admitted, the court said it need not instruct the jury

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Confrontation Clause is satisfied “when the hearsay declarants . . . actually appear in court and testify in person.” United States v. Charboneau, 613 F.3d 860, 861 (8th Cir. 2010) (quotation omitted).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after D.F. testified at trial, the Eighth Circuit cited United States v. Charboneau while addressing the Confrontation Clause issue, and under Charboneau the Confrontation Clause is satisfied “when the hearsay declarants . . . actually appear in court and testify in person.”
target:  “when the hearsay declarants . . . actually appear in court and testify in person.”
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after D.F. testified at trial, the Eighth Circuit cited United States v. Charboneau while addressing the Confrontation Clause issue, and under Charboneau the Confrontation Clause is satisfied

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Confrontation Clause is satisfied “when the hearsay declarants . . . actually appear in court and testify in person.” United States v. Charboneau, 613 F.3d 860, 861 (8th Cir. 2010) (quotation omitted).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, in addressing Confrontation Clause concerns about D.F.'s statements to police, the opinion states that the Confrontation Clause is satisfied by the appearance in court and in-person testimony of the hearsay declarants.
target:  the hearsay declarants
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, in addressing Confrontation Clause concerns about D.F.'s statements to police, the opinion states that the Confrontation Clause is satisfied by the appearance in court and in-person testimony of

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At trial, D.F. testified she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle a “handful of times” before the incident.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, D.F. testified at trial that she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle
target:  the sawed-off rifle
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, D.F. testified at trial that she had seen Cutbank with

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court also overruled a defense objection when C.F., testifying as a government witness, testified that she had seen the gun used during the incident “once or twice” before.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the district court overruled the defense objection during trial after C.F. testified about having seen the gun used in the incident before, C.F. was testifying as a government witness
target:  a government witness
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the district court overruled the defense objection during trial after C.F. testified about having seen the gun used in the incident before, C.F. was testifying as

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court also overruled a defense objection when C.F., testifying as a government witness, testified that she had seen the gun used during the incident “once or twice” before.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the district court overruled the defense's objection to C.F.'s testimony as a government witness at trial, she testified that she had seen the gun used in the incident “once or twice” before
target:  “once or twice” before
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the district court overruled the defense's objection to C.F.'s testimony as a government witness at trial, she testified that she had seen the gun used in the incident

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On appeal, Cutback cites no authority refuting the court’s pretrial ruling that this was intrinsic evidence relevant to proving the possession charge and demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank failed to cite any authority on appeal refuting what he challenged regarding testimony that he had possessed the sawed-off rifle before the incident: the court’s pretrial ruling
target:  the court’s pretrial ruling
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank failed to cite any authority on appeal refuting what he challenged regarding testimony that he had possessed the sawed-off rifle before the incident:

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On appeal, Cutback cites no authority refuting the court’s pretrial ruling that this was intrinsic evidence relevant to proving the possession charge and demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," on appeal the defendant did not cite any authority refuting the district court’s pretrial ruling that treated witness testimony as intrinsic evidence, and under that ruling the intrinsic evidence was relevant to demonstrating continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
target:  continuous possession of the firearm before the incident.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," on appeal the defendant did not cite any authority refuting the district court’s pretrial ruling that treated witness testimony as intrinsic evidence, and under that ruling the intrinsic evidence was relevant to demonstrating

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During cross examination regarding prior inconsistent statements regarding the gun, including that she did not remember seeing the gun on the night in question, D.F. testified that some statements were because she was “not familiar with guns” and “did not like guns . . . [a]s [her] sister was killed by a gun.”
fact: In the case "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," during cross-examination about D.F.'s prior inconsistent statements regarding the gun, including her statement that she did not remember seeing the gun on the night in question, D.F. said one reason for those statements was “not familiar with guns”
target:  “not familiar with guns”
probe: In the case "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," during cross-examination about D.F.'s prior inconsistent statements regarding the gun, including her statement that she did not remember seeing the gun on the night in question, D.F. said one reason for those statements was

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During cross examination regarding prior inconsistent statements regarding the gun, including that she did not remember seeing the gun on the night in question, D.F. testified that some statements were because she was “not familiar with guns” and “did not like guns . . . [a]s [her] sister was killed by a gun.”
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during cross-examination about D.F.'s prior inconsistent statements concerning the gun, D.F. said that she did not like guns because [a]s [her] sister was killed by a gun.
target:  [a]s [her] sister was killed by a gun.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during cross-examination about D.F.'s prior inconsistent statements concerning the gun, D.F. said that she did not like guns because

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court allowed questions regarding what C.F. said to police but sustained the government’s objections to defense counsel reading portions of the resulting police report into the record without proper foundation because the report was not authored by C.F.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the defense cross-examined C.F. about her prior statements to a police investigator, the district court allowed questioning about what C.F. said to police
target:  what C.F. said to police
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the defense cross-examined C.F. about her prior statements to a police investigator, the district court allowed questioning about

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court allowed questions regarding what C.F. said to police but sustained the government’s objections to defense counsel reading portions of the resulting police report into the record without proper foundation because the report was not authored by C.F.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the district court sustained the government's objections to defense counsel reading parts of the police report into the record for lack of foundation because the report was not authored by C.F.
target:  the report was not authored by C.F.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the district court sustained the government's objections to defense counsel reading parts of the police report into the record for lack of foundation because

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although Cutback on appeal did not refer to this ruling, the government’s brief argued that Cutback’s “next claim is that the district court ‘thwarted’ his efforts to cross-examine C.F. on her testimony regarding the gun possession.”
fact: In the case "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the government’s brief described one of Cutbank’s appellate claims concerning the district court’s handling of his cross-examination of C.F. on her testimony about gun possession as a claim that the district court ‘thwarted’ his efforts to cross-examine C.F. on her testimony regarding the gun possession.
target:  ‘thwarted’ his efforts to cross-examine C.F. on her testimony regarding the gun possession
probe: In the case "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the government’s brief described one of Cutbank’s appellate claims concerning the district court’s handling of his cross-examination of C.F. on her testimony about gun possession as a claim that the district court

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although Cutback on appeal did not refer to this ruling, the government’s brief argued that Cutback’s “next claim is that the district court ‘thwarted’ his efforts to cross-examine C.F. on her testimony regarding the gun possession.”
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the government's appellate brief argued that Cutbank claimed the district court had “thwarted” his efforts to cross-examine a witness about testimony concerning gun possession, and the witness was C.F.
target:  C.F.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the government's appellate brief argued that Cutbank claimed the district court had “thwarted” his efforts to cross-examine a witness about testimony concerning gun possession, and the witness was

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Although extrinsic evidence may be used for impeachment by prior inconsistent statement, such extrinsic evidence must still be authenticated.” United States v. Cumbie, 28 F.4th 907, 914 (8th Cir. 2022) (quotation omitted).
fact: In the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," which cited United States v. Cumbie, extrinsic evidence may be used for impeachment by prior inconsistent statement
target:  impeachment by prior inconsistent statement
probe: In the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," which cited United States v. Cumbie, extrinsic evidence may be used for

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Although extrinsic evidence may be used for impeachment by prior inconsistent statement, such extrinsic evidence must still be authenticated.” United States v. Cumbie, 28 F.4th 907, 914 (8th Cir. 2022) (quotation omitted).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," when a party uses extrinsic evidence to impeach a witness with a prior inconsistent statement, that extrinsic evidence must still be authenticated
target:  authenticated
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," when a party uses extrinsic evidence to impeach a witness with a prior inconsistent statement, that extrinsic evidence must still be

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, as Cutback acknowledges, “this court will not reverse an erroneous evidentiary ruling if the error was harmless. . . . In other words, we will reverse only if the jury may have been substantially swayed by the improperly admitted evidence.” United States v. DeMarce, 564 F.3d 989, 997 (8th Cir. 2009) (quotation omitted).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," when the Eighth Circuit quoted United States v. DeMarce in discussing harmless error review of evidentiary rulings, it stated that the court will not reverse an erroneous evidentiary ruling if the error was harmless.
target:  if the error was harmless
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," when the Eighth Circuit quoted United States v. DeMarce in discussing harmless error review of evidentiary rulings, it stated that the court will not reverse an erroneous evidentiary ruling

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, as Cutback acknowledges, “this court will not reverse an erroneous evidentiary ruling if the error was harmless. . . . In other words, we will reverse only if the jury may have been substantially swayed by the improperly admitted evidence.” United States v. DeMarce, 564 F.3d 989, 997 (8th Cir. 2009) (quotation omitted).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the court will reverse an erroneous evidentiary ruling only if the jury may have been substantially swayed by the improperly admitted evidence.
target:  the jury may have been substantially swayed by the improperly admitted evidence.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the court will reverse an erroneous evidentiary ruling only if

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Thus, the district court’s evidentiary rulings “did not influence or had only a slight influence on the verdict.” Id. at 998.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the rulings that "did not influence or had only a slight influence on the verdict" were the district court’s evidentiary rulings
target:  the district court’s evidentiary rulings
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the rulings that "did not influence or had only a slight influence on the verdict" were

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “We will not overturn a conviction based on the cumulative effect of trial errors unless there is substantial prejudice to the defendant.” United States v. Keys, 918 F.3d 982, 985 (8th Cir. 2019) (quotation omitted).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, before the court will overturn a conviction based on the cumulative effect of trial errors, there must be shown substantial prejudice to the defendant.
target:  substantial prejudice to the defendant.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, before the court will overturn a conviction based on the cumulative effect of trial errors, there must be shown

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It also found he had three or more prior violent felony convictions, triggering the Armed Career Criminal Act’s enhanced penalties.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the jury found Cutbank guilty of being a felon in possession of a firearm and also found that he had three or more prior violent felony convictions, those findings triggered the Armed Career Criminal Act’s enhanced penalties.
target:  the Armed Career Criminal Act’s enhanced penalties
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the jury found Cutbank guilty of being a felon in possession of a firearm and also found that he had three or more prior violent felony convictions, those findings triggered

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Presentence Investigation Report (PSR) recommended a base offense level of 26 because the offense involved a sawed-off firearm described in 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a) and Cutback had at least two prior convictions for crimes of violence, plus a three-level increase because the firearm had an altered/obliterated serial number, a two-level increase because he recklessly created a risk of death or serious bodily injury while fleeing from police, and a four-level increase because he possessed the firearm in connection with another felony offense, for a total offense level of 35.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Presentence Investigation Report recommended a base offense level of 26 for the felon-in-possession offense based on a sawed-off firearm described in 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a)
target:  26 U.S.C. § 5845(a)
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Presentence Investigation Report recommended a base offense level of 26 for the felon-in-possession offense based on a sawed-off firearm described in

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Presentence Investigation Report (PSR) recommended a base offense level of 26 because the offense involved a sawed-off firearm described in 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a) and Cutback had at least two prior convictions for crimes of violence, plus a three-level increase because the firearm had an altered/obliterated serial number, a two-level increase because he recklessly created a risk of death or serious bodily injury while fleeing from police, and a four-level increase because he possessed the firearm in connection with another felony offense, for a total offense level of 35.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Presentence Investigation Report recommended several sentencing increases for Cutbank’s felon-in-possession offense, including a three-level increase based on an altered/obliterated serial number.
target:  an altered/obliterated serial number
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Presentence Investigation Report recommended several sentencing increases for Cutbank’s felon-in-possession offense, including a three-level increase based on

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The PSR calculated a Criminal History Category of VI, resulting in an advisory guidelines sentencing range of 292 to 365 months imprisonment.
fact: In "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the Presentence Investigation Report calculated Cutbank's Criminal History Category of VI,
target:  VI,
probe: In "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the Presentence Investigation Report calculated Cutbank's Criminal History Category of

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The PSR calculated a Criminal History Category of VI, resulting in an advisory guidelines sentencing range of 292 to 365 months imprisonment.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the Presentence Investigation Report calculated a Criminal History Category of VI, the advisory Guidelines sentencing range was 292 to 365 months imprisonment.
target:  292 to 365 months imprisonment.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the Presentence Investigation Report calculated a Criminal History Category of VI, the advisory Guidelines sentencing range was

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On appeal, Cutbank argues the district court incorrectly applied the four-level sentencing enhancement for possession of a firearm in connection with another felony offense under § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank appealed his sentence and argued that the district court wrongly imposed a four-level enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense under § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B)
target:  § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B)
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank appealed his sentence and argued that the district court wrongly imposed a four-level enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense under

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This enhancement applies if a defendant used or possessed any firearm or ammunition in connection with another federal, state, or local felony offense “regardless of whether a criminal charge was brought, or a conviction obtained.” § 2K2.1, comment. (n.14(C)).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," Application Note 14(C) to § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) provides that the firearm-possession enhancement applies when the firearm or ammunition is used or possessed in connection with another federal, state, or local felony offense.
target:  another federal, state, or local felony offense
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," Application Note 14(C) to § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) provides that the firearm-possession enhancement applies when the firearm or ammunition is used or possessed in connection with

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This enhancement applies if a defendant used or possessed any firearm or ammunition in connection with another federal, state, or local felony offense “regardless of whether a criminal charge was brought, or a conviction obtained.” § 2K2.1, comment. (n.14(C)).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the commentary to U.S.S.G. § 2K2.1, application note 14(C), says that the four-level enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense applies “regardless of whether a criminal charge was brought, or a conviction obtained.”
target:  “regardless of whether a criminal charge was brought, or a conviction obtained.”
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," the commentary to U.S.S.G. § 2K2.1, application note 14(C), says that the four-level enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense applies

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At sentencing, the district court adopted, without objection, the PSR’s factual statements regarding Cutback’s prior felony convictions.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during sentencing on the felon-in-possession conviction, the district court adopted without objection the PSR’s factual statements regarding Cutback’s prior felony convictions.
target:  the PSR’s factual statements regarding Cutback’s prior felony convictions.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during sentencing on the felon-in-possession conviction, the district court adopted without objection

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At sentencing, the district court adopted, without objection, the PSR’s factual statements regarding Cutback’s prior felony convictions.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during sentencing on the felon-in-possession conviction and related guideline enhancements, the district court adopted the Presentence Investigation Report's factual statements about Cutbank's prior felony convictions, without objection.
target:  without objection
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, during sentencing on the felon-in-possession conviction and related guideline enhancements, the district court adopted the Presentence Investigation Report's factual statements about Cutbank's prior felony convictions,

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Thus, the court did not err, much less clearly err, in finding that the facts in the PSR establish that the gun was used in connection with another felony. See United States v. Dunn, 723 F.3d 919, 929-30 (8th Cir. 2013) (standard of review), cert. denied, 571 U.S. 1145 (2014).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, on appeal from the district court's application of the § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) sentencing enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense, the facts the court found established that the gun was used in connection with another felony were contained in the PSR.
target:  the PSR
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, on appeal from the district court's application of the § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) sentencing enhancement for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense, the facts the court found established that the gun was used in connection with another felony were contained in

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Thus, the court did not err, much less clearly err, in finding that the facts in the PSR establish that the gun was used in connection with another felony. See United States v. Dunn, 723 F.3d 919, 929-30 (8th Cir. 2013) (standard of review), cert. denied, 571 U.S. 1145 (2014).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the Eighth Circuit concluded that the district court did not clearly err in relying on the PSR's facts to apply the four-level enhancement under U.S.S.G. § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense, it cited United States v. Dunn, 723 F.3d 919, 929-30 (8th Cir. 2013).
target:  United States v. Dunn, 723 F.3d 919, 929-30 (8th Cir. 2013)
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the Eighth Circuit concluded that the district court did not clearly err in relying on the PSR's facts to apply the four-level enhancement under U.S.S.G. § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) for possessing a firearm in connection with another felony offense, it cited

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, Cutbank argues that application of the § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) 4-level enhancement results in a within-range sentence that “conflicts with the core principle of 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a)” that a sentence “be sufficient, but not greater than necessary, to comply with the purposes set forth in paragraph (2) of this subsection.”
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, on appeal from his felon-in-possession sentence, Cutbank argued that the within-Guidelines sentence conflicted with the core principle of 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) because of application of the § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) 4-level enhancement.
target:  application of the § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) 4-level enhancement
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, on appeal from his felon-in-possession sentence, Cutbank argued that the within-Guidelines sentence conflicted with the core principle of 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) because of

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Though the jury found that Cutback had three or more prior violent felony convictions, triggering Armed Career Criminal Act penalties, the Armed Career Criminal Guideline would have produced a total offense level of 34.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the jury found that Cutbank had three or more prior violent felony convictions
target:  three or more prior violent felony convictions
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the jury found that Cutbank had

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In determining an appropriate sentence, “a district court should begin all sentencing proceedings by correctly calculating the applicable Guidelines range.” Gall v. United States, 552 U.S. 38, 49 (2007).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, quoting Gall v. United States on how a district court should determine an appropriate sentence, the court said a district court should begin all sentencing proceedings by correctly calculating the applicable Guidelines range.
target:  all sentencing proceedings by correctly calculating the applicable Guidelines range.
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, quoting Gall v. United States on how a district court should determine an appropriate sentence, the court said a district court should begin

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Before a court of appeals can consider the substantive reasonableness of a sentence, it must first ensure that the district court committed no significant procedural error, such as failing to calculate (or improperly calculating) the Guidelines range.” Rosales-Mireles v. United States, 585 U.S. 129, 143-44 (2018).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," before an appellate court considers the substantive reasonableness of a sentence in reviewing the district court's Guidelines calculation, it must first ensure the district court committed no significant procedural error, such as failing to calculate (or improperly calculating) the Guidelines range.
target:  significant procedural error, such as failing to calculate (or improperly calculating) the Guidelines range.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," before an appellate court considers the substantive reasonableness of a sentence in reviewing the district court's Guidelines calculation, it must first ensure the district court committed no

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Before a court of appeals can consider the substantive reasonableness of a sentence, it must first ensure that the district court committed no significant procedural error, such as failing to calculate (or improperly calculating) the Guidelines range.” Rosales-Mireles v. United States, 585 U.S. 129, 143-44 (2018).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," before reviewing the substantive reasonableness of a sentence, a court of appeals must first check for a significant procedural sentencing error such as failing to calculate (or improperly calculating) the Guidelines range.
target:  failing to calculate (or improperly calculating) the Guidelines range
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," before reviewing the substantive reasonableness of a sentence, a court of appeals must first check for a significant procedural sentencing error such as

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court then considers whether the § 3553(a) factors warrant a departure or variance from the advisory guidelines range sentence.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," after correctly calculating the advisory Guidelines range at sentencing, the court considers whether a departure or variance is warranted, and the relevant considerations are the § 3553(a) factors
target:  the § 3553(a) factors
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," after correctly calculating the advisory Guidelines range at sentencing, the court considers whether a departure or variance is warranted, and the relevant considerations are

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Here, the court imposed a sentence within the applicable guidelines range, which we presume is reasonable on appeal. United States v. Goodhouse, 81 F.4th 786, 793 (8th Cir. 2023).
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the opinion cited the case for the rule that a sentence imposed within the applicable Guidelines range is presumed reasonable on appeal: United States v. Goodhouse, 81 F.4th 786, 793 (8th Cir. 2023).
target:  United States v. Goodhouse, 81 F.4th 786, 793 (8th Cir. 2023).
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the opinion cited the case for the rule that a sentence imposed within the applicable Guidelines range is presumed reasonable on appeal:

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The offense of conviction involved domestic abuse, kidnaping, assault in the victim’s home in the presence of her children, and injuring a police officer while resisting arrest.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Eighth Circuit described the conduct at issue under 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) as assault in the victim’s home in the presence of her children
target:  assault in the victim’s home in the presence of her children
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Eighth Circuit described the conduct at issue under 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) as

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The offense of conviction involved domestic abuse, kidnaping, assault in the victim’s home in the presence of her children, and injuring a police officer while resisting arrest.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the Eighth Circuit discussed Cutbank’s within-Guidelines sentence and the § 3553(a) factors, it described the conduct underlying the offense of conviction as injuring a police officer while resisting arrest.
target:  a police officer while resisting arrest
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, when the Eighth Circuit discussed Cutbank’s within-Guidelines sentence and the § 3553(a) factors, it described the conduct underlying the offense of conviction as injuring

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court did not abuse its substantial sentencing discretion and impose a substantively unreasonable sentence when it sentenced Cutback to a withinrange 292-month term of imprisonment.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the Eighth Circuit considered Cutbank's challenge to the substantive reasonableness of his within-Guidelines sentence, the district court had imposed a 292-month term of imprisonment.
target:  292-month term of imprisonment
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the Eighth Circuit considered Cutbank's challenge to the substantive reasonableness of his within-Guidelines sentence, the district court had imposed a

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court did not abuse its substantial sentencing discretion and impose a substantively unreasonable sentence when it sentenced Cutback to a withinrange 292-month term of imprisonment.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the district court imposed a within-Guidelines 292-month term of imprisonment and the Eighth Circuit reviewed it for substantive reasonableness, the court said the district court did not impose a substantively unreasonable sentence.
target:  a substantively unreasonable sentence
probe: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after the district court imposed a within-Guidelines 292-month term of imprisonment and the Eighth Circuit reviewed it for substantive reasonableness, the court said the district court did not impose

