Title: Pacito v. Trump

Oral argument in this matter was conducted on an expedited schedule on September 3, 2025. The court will issue its opinion in due course. Meanwhile, this Order shall serve as a stay during the pendency of the appeal and until further direction from this court. The administrative stay entered on July 18, 2025, is hereby vacated. In addition, we set aside our earlier stay from March 25, 2025, along with its amendments from April 21 and May 9, 2025. The district court’s preliminary injunctions dated February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45), and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79), are stayed in full, except as otherwise specified within this Order. The government’s emergency motion filed on July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108), is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order named “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President found that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and ordered that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until further determinations are made. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (stating in pertinent part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Then, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all funding for the USRAP program, ostensibly under the authority of a separate executive order titled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). This suspension, pending further examination, also applied to financial support for domestic resettlement services provided to refugees admitted to the United States.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who had either previously been admitted to the United States or had received approval for resettlement in the United States but remained abroad, as well as three organizations that held cooperative agreements with the State Department to conduct overseas processing for refugee status applicants and to deliver resettlement services to admitted refugees. In February 2025, the plaintiffs initiated a lawsuit in the Western District of Washington, asserting that Executive Order 14163’s suspension of the refugee program contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified in multiple sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and that the cessation of funding for USRAP breached various sections of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court, in an oral ruling, granted a preliminary injunction forbidding enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government cancelled all cooperative agreements for the provision of reception and placement services to refugees within the United States, as well as all but one of the cooperative agreements supporting USRAP processing overseas. On February 28, the district court entered a written order clarifying the February 25 preliminary injunction, expressly including within its scope a prohibition on suspending USRAP funding. On March 24, the court issued a second preliminary injunction directing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been terminated subsequent to the February 25 order. The government submitted notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay pending appeal of the district court’s February 28 order, which a motions panel of this court partially granted on March 25. Referring to Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the statutory authority the President relied on to issue Executive Order No. 14163, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “exudes deference” toward the President and “vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nevertheless, we denied the motion for a stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Subsequently, we issued two further orders to clarify the scope of this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel ordered comprehensive briefing and instructed the Clerk of Court to set the appeal on the earliest available calendar.

After briefing but prior to the scheduled argument on September 19, 2025, the district court, on July 14, entered an order to create a mechanism for enforcing the limited carveout and designated a magistrate judge to administer the framework. The government, on July 17, submitted an emergency motion seeking enforcement, clarification, or modification of the stay order, which the plaintiffs opposed. On July 18, 2025, we granted an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order and set the matter for expedited oral argument.

DISCUSSION

After considering the parties’ briefing and hearing oral argument, the case is now under submission for a decision. A decision on the merits will be issued in due time. Meanwhile, we hereby lift our administrative stay dated July 18 as well as the stay entered on March 25, as subsequently amended on April 21 and May 9. We now grant this stay pending the final determination of this appeal. Accordingly, the district court’s orders of February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, except as otherwise specified below.

The criteria governing the issuance of a stay are well settled. The court evaluates four considerations: (1) whether the party requesting the stay has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of success on the merits; (2) whether that party will suffer irreparable harm in the absence of a stay; (3) whether the issuance of a stay will cause substantial injury to other parties with an interest in the proceeding; and (4) the public interest. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). Of these, the first two factors—a likelihood of success on the merits and irreparable harm—are “the most critical.” Id. The government has shown a probable likelihood of prevailing against the plaintiffs’ challenge to the lawfulness of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and our review does not extend to “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. “The sole prerequisite set forth in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685. “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, regarding suspension of the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The remaining factors, which relate to both domestic and foreign concerns of the United States and are shaped by the President’s “broad discretion,” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also weigh in favor of the United States.

The government, for reasons that will be set forth in detail in a forthcoming opinion, does not appear likely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ Administrative Procedure Act claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is obligated to deliver specified reception and placement services to refugees following their entry into the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) mandates that the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—a division of the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations”—(i) allocate adequate resources to provide employment training and placement in order to enable refugees to attain economic self-sufficiency as soon as practicable, (ii) offer refugees access to sufficient English language training so that they may effectively resettle promptly, (iii) ensure that cash assistance is distributed in a manner that does not discourage refugees’ pursuit of economic self-sufficiency, in accordance with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) guarantee that women have equal access as men to participate in all training and educational programs. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (detailing federal financial support for refugee services). With respect to unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). Concerning cash and medical assistance for refugees recently resettled, § 1522(e)(7)(A) directs that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” For fiscal year 2025, Congress appropriated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating the appropriations set forth in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), with a subsequent $800 million reduction under the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Section 1523 requires the Secretary to submit a comprehensive report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, resettlement services—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—may be delivered via contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). The United States has, in practice, used cooperative agreements with multiple resettlement organizations to provide these services. The organizational plaintiffs are three entities with which the Department of State has executed such cooperative agreements.

As previously noted, the State Department ended all such cooperative agreements for providing these services in February 2024. After terminating this funding, the government notified the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. However, notwithstanding this statement, at oral argument before the panel, the government indicated it did not know if any steps had been taken toward finding a new agency or agencies to provide these services.

Given the government’s lack of clarity regarding its fulfillment of the statutory obligation to provide reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is hereby ordered to reinstate those cooperative agreements as needed to furnish the reception and placement services outlined in § 1522 to refugees admitted into the United States. These services must encompass the standard and customary services that refugees previously received under the earlier cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is afforded significant discretion and judicial deference in the realm of immigration, the district court erroneously prohibited the executive branch from enforcing the President’s policy to restrict the admission of refugees and to withhold associated services. Consequently, I would grant a complete stay of the district court’s injunctions.

My fellow judges and I concur that the President possesses the authority to pause the admission of refugees, and for that reason, we would stay the district court’s injunction as it relates to this subject. However, we differ in our views regarding whether the federal government is legally obligated to deliver services to individuals who were recently admitted before the moratorium commenced. My colleagues read 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a duty on the government to furnish certain services to refugees. In contrast, I interpret the provision as conferring discretion rather than imposing a requirement.

To begin: the heading of § 1522 reads “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). The word “authorization” implies discretion, not compulsion. AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining the term as “permission to do something” or an “official document granting such permission”). Therefore, under § 1522, Congress permits action but does not make it obligatory.

Moreover, the four specific statutory subsections allocating funds for various refugee services—such as “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—all indicate that the “Director is authorized” to provide assistance. See 8 U.S.C. § 1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). These statutory terms further demonstrate that the executive branch maintains discretion concerning the allocation of funds.

In contending that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues reference §1522(a)—captioned “Conditions and consideration”—which contains both the term “shall” and the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this wording is limited by the preceding clause: “In providing assistance under this section [i.e., referring to the discretionary funding outlined in §1522(b)-(e)]. . .” Essentially, §1522(a) sets forth mandatory “conditions and considerations” only if the government elects to fund refugee initiatives. For instance, the Director “shall... make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [from §1522(c)’s discretionary funding for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible [meaning this is the obligatory consideration if the government chooses to provide such funding].”

To reinforce their assertion of obligatory spending, my colleagues refer to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which arguably place some requirements on the Director. Neither, however, effectively challenges the general scheme of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) states that the Director of the program is legally and financially responsible for unaccompanied refugee children only if that responsibility is “necessary.” It further empowers the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite the use of “shall,” this provision is highly deferential to executive judgment and establishes no unequivocal mandate. Additionally, the record does not clarify whether any unaccompanied refugee children are involved here. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) specifies the “Secretary shall develop and implement” cash and medical support projects for refugees “as needed.” The design and extent of these programs rest within executive discretion, falling short of a strict congressional directive.

In my opinion, Section 1522 grants authority to the executive branch to design programs at its discretion contingent on appropriations, but does not obligate those programs’ operation. Because the statute does not require the executive to provide these services, this court cannot compel their provision. Therefore, I respectfully dissent in part.