Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

Oral argument in this appeal took place on an expedited schedule on September 3, 2025. The court will issue its opinion in due course. Meanwhile, this Order shall serve as a stay pending appeal and subject to further court directive. The court’s administrative stay dated July 18, 2025, is hereby set aside. We also set aside our earlier stay from March 25, 2025, as modified on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The district court’s preliminary injunctions entered on February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45), and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79), are stayed in full except as provided otherwise herein. The government’s emergency motion filed July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108), is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President determined that permitting “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and ordered a suspension of “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP” until further determination. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (authorizing the President, upon finding that the admission of certain aliens or classes of aliens “would be detrimental to the interest of the United States,” to “by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Then, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all funding for the USRAP program, claiming to act under a separate executive order labeled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). This funding suspension, pending further review, also encompassed support for domestic resettlement services provided to refugees admitted to the United States.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who had previously been admitted to the United States or who had received approval for resettlement but remained abroad, along with three organizations that held cooperative agreements with the State Department to facilitate overseas processing for individuals seeking refugee status and to deliver resettlement services to refugees admitted to the United States. In February 2025, the plaintiffs initiated litigation in the Western District of Washington, contending that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 was in conflict with the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (as codified in various provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and that the elimination of USRAP funding contravened multiple sections of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court delivered an oral ruling issuing a preliminary injunction that barred the enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government cancelled all cooperative agreements for reception and placement services for refugees in the United States, as well as all but one agreement related to USRAP processing support abroad. On February 28, the district court provided a written order further clarifying the February 25 preliminary injunction, stating that it also forbade the suspension of USRAP funding. Subsequently, on March 24, the district court issued a second preliminary injunction requiring the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been terminated subsequent to the February 25 order. The government filed notices of appeal on both February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order pending appeal, which a motions panel of this court partially granted on March 25. Citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the statutory basis for the President’s issuance of Executive Order No. 14163, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). However, we denied the government’s motion for a stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We subsequently entered two orders that clarified this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel ordered full briefing and directed the Clerk of Court to set the appeal for the next available calendar.

After briefing had been submitted but before the argument was set for September 19, 2025, the district court issued an order on July 14 establishing a structure for enforcing the limited carveout and assigning a magistrate judge to supervise its implementation. The government, on July 17, responded with an emergency motion seeking to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay order; plaintiffs opposed this motion. On July 18, 2025, we entered an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order and ordered that oral argument be scheduled on an expedited timetable.

DISCUSSION

After considering the briefs submitted by both parties as well as oral argument, the matter is taken under advisement and is now before us for decision. A ruling on the substantive issues will follow in due course. Meanwhile, our administrative stay dated July 18 and our earlier stay entered on March 25, as modified by orders on April 21 and May 9, are hereby dissolved. A new stay is granted pending the ultimate resolution of this appeal. All provisions of the district court’s February 28 and March 24, 2025 orders are stayed, with limited exceptions detailed herein.

The criteria governing issuance of a stay are long-standing. The court examines four elements: (1) whether the party requesting the stay has demonstrated a strong likelihood of success on the merits; (2) whether that party will sustain irreparable harm if a stay is denied; (3) whether granting the stay would cause substantial harm to other interested parties; and (4) considerations of the public interest. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The first two considerations—a strong case on the merits and the threat of irreparable injury—are “the most critical.” Id. There is a strong probability that the government will succeed on the merits of the plaintiffs’ challenge to the legality of Executive Order No. 14163’s restriction of refugee admissions, as the Court is constrained from conducting “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. Section 1182(f) imposes only that the President “find[] that the entry of the covered aliens would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.” The President has plainly satisfied this standard. Id. at 685. The statutory language of § 1182(f) is explicit, and the Executive Order does not surpass any express limitation on presidential authority. Id. at 688; see also U.S.C. § 1182(f) (permitting suspension of “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States”). The additional considerations, which implicate domestic and foreign policy interests as defined by the “broad discretion” granted to the President, Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also support the United States’ position.

As will be explained more fully in a subsequent opinion, the government does not appear likely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ claims brought under the APA. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is obligated to furnish specific reception and placement services to refugees following their entry into the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) directs the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—which operates within the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations”—to: (i) allocate sufficient resources for employment training and job placement to help refugees achieve economic independence as swiftly as possible, (ii) ensure refugees have access to adequate English language instruction to facilitate their prompt resettlement, (iii) guarantee that cash assistance is provided to refugees in a manner that does not impede their economic independence, per subsection (e)(2), and (iv) ensure that women receive training and educational opportunities equivalent to those provided to men. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (which outlines the federal funding available for refugee services). Likewise, regarding unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis original). Concerning monetary and medical aid for newly resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) mandates that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” It is noted that for the fiscal year 2025, Congress allocated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating funding from division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), which was subsequently reduced by $800 million under the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Additionally, Section 1523 imposes a requirement for the Secretary to submit a comprehensive report detailing “activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—are permitted to be delivered through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Historically, the United States has engaged in cooperative agreements with various resettlement entities for the provision of these services. The organizational plaintiffs are among those entities with which the Department of State previously maintained cooperative agreements.

As previously noted, the State Department ended all such cooperative agreements for these services in February 2024. Following the discontinuation of funding for resettlement services, the government notified the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Notwithstanding this assurance, during oral argument before the panel, the government stated it did not know whether any progress had been achieved in identifying new agency or agencies to offer these services.

Given the government's lack of clarity regarding its capacity to fulfill the statutory obligations for reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore such cooperative agreements as are required to provide the reception and placement services outlined in § 1522 for refugees admitted to the United States. These services must encompass the customary and regular services previously provided under earlier cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is generally granted broad discretion and is accorded considerable deference in matters relating to immigration, the district court erred by enjoining the executive branch from carrying out the President’s policy regarding restrictions on the admission of refugees and the provision of services to them. Accordingly, I would grant a stay of the district court’s injunctions in full.

While my fellow panel members and I concur that the President possesses the authority to impose a temporary halt on the admission of refugees—and thus would stay the injunction with respect to that policy—we disagree over the existence of a statutory obligation for the federal government to supply services to individuals already admitted prior to implementation of the suspension. My colleagues read 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a requirement on the government to deliver specified services to refugees. In my view, the statutory language is best understood as permissive rather than obligatory.

To begin, the heading of Section 1522 reads “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis added). The use of “authorization” denotes an allowance, not a compulsion. See AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining “authorization” as “permission to do something” or an “official document granting such permission”). Thus, Congress confers discretionary authority through § 1522 rather than imposing an imperative.

In addition, each of the four relevant statutory provisions furnishing funding for various refugee assistance programs—for instance, those titled “Program of initial resettlement,” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—explicitly provides that the “Director is authorized” to extend such assistance. See U.S.C. § 1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). This recurring language further indicates that discretion is afforded to the executive branch with respect to the allocation of such funding.

My colleagues contend that Section 1522 establishes a requirement for mandatory funding, basing their interpretation on §1522(a), which is headed “Conditions and consideration” and contains both the term “shall” and the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this language is restricted by the clause that comes just before it: “In providing assistance under this section [that is, the discretionary funding provisions in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . .” This means that §1522(a) sets forth certain obligatory “conditions and considerations” only in the event that the government opts to allocate funding to refugee programs. As an illustration, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [in accordance with § 1522(c)’s discretionary funding for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible [meaning this is the required condition that must be considered if funding is provided].”

To support their assertion of obligatory spending, my colleagues also reference subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which could be interpreted as imposing certain duties on the Director. Nevertheless, neither section persuasively contradicts how § 1522 operates overall. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obligates the program’s Director to accept legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee minors only in cases where such responsibility is deemed “necessary.” That provision likewise authorizes the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Although the subsection employs the term “shall,” it strongly defers to the judgment of the executive branch and does not establish any unequivocal obligation. The record is also unclear as to whether there are currently any unaccompanied refugee children implicated in this matter. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) declares that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects for cash and medical support for refugees “as needed.” The precise parameters of such programs are left to executive branch discretion, falling far short of an unmistakable legislative mandate.

In my opinion, Section 1522 simply grants the executive branch authority to devise programs at its own discretion, contingent on the availability of appropriated funds. It does not impose a requirement that those programs actually be carried out. Since there is no statutory obligation compelling the executive branch to provide these services, it is not within this court’s power to order them. Therefore, I respectfully dissent in part.