Title: Pacito v. Trump

This court conducted oral argument on an expedited schedule on September 3, 2025. An opinion will be filed in due time. Meanwhile, this Order will serve as a stay pending the appeal and any further directives from this court. The administrative stay previously entered on July 18, 2025, is hereby set aside. Additionally, we set aside our earlier stay granted on March 25, 2025, and as modified on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The preliminary injunctions issued by the district court on February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45), and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79), are stayed in full, except as otherwise provided in this Order. The government's emergency motion dated July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108), is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” See Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President found that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and accordingly ordered that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until further determinations are made. Exec. Order No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (stating in pertinent part: “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). On January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all USRAP program funding, ostensibly acting under a separate executive order identified as “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). The suspension covered, pending additional review, funding for domestic resettlement assistance for refugees who had already been admitted to the country.

The plaintiffs include refugees who were either previously admitted into the United States or have been granted approval for resettlement in the United States but remain outside the country, as well as three organizations that maintained cooperative agreements with the State Department to facilitate overseas processing for refugee applicants and to deliver resettlement services to refugees admitted to the U.S. In February 2025, the plaintiffs initiated litigation in the Western District of Washington, contending that the suspension of the refugee program by Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified throughout the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further alleged that the withdrawal of funding for USRAP violated multiple provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court orally granted a preliminary injunction barring enforcement or execution of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government terminated all cooperative agreements for providing reception and placement services for refugees within the United States, as well as all but one agreement supporting USRAP processing abroad. On February 28, the district court issued a written order delineating the breadth of the February 25 preliminary injunction, clarifying that it also restrained any suspension of USRAP funding. On March 24, the court entered a second preliminary injunction directing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been terminated following the February 25 order. The government lodged notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay pending appeal of the district court’s February 28 order, which was partially granted by a motions panel of this court on March 25. Citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the President’s authority to issue Executive Order No. 14163 under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) “exudes deference” and “vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). However, we denied the request for a stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We subsequently issued two orders further elucidating this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel instructed the parties to file full briefs and directed the Clerk of Court to list the appeal for the next available session.

After briefing concluded but prior to the scheduled argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court entered an order on July 14 to set up a procedure for administering the limited carveout and designated a magistrate judge to supervise its implementation. Subsequently, the government filed an emergency motion on July 17 seeking to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay order, a motion the plaintiffs contested. On July 18, 2025, we entered an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order and arranged for oral argument to proceed on an accelerated schedule.

DISCUSSION

After considering the parties' briefs and oral presentations, we deem the case submitted for a ruling. The court's decision on the merits will follow in due time. Meanwhile, we hereby dissolve our administrative stay entered on July 18, along with our stay of March 25, which was modified on April 21 and May 9. Instead, we impose this new stay effective until the final disposition of this appeal. All provisions of the district court’s orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, subject to the exceptions specified below.

The criteria for granting a stay are settled. We weigh four considerations: (1) whether the party seeking the stay has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of prevailing on the merits; (2) whether the applicant would suffer irreparable harm without a stay; (3) whether granting the stay would cause significant injury to any other interested parties; and (4) where the public interest lies. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). Among these, the first two factors—likelihood of success on the merits and risk of irreparable harm—are paramount. Id. In this case, the government appears likely to succeed against plaintiffs’ challenge to Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications” is foreclosed. Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. Section 1182(f) only requires the President to “find[]” that permitting entry of designated aliens “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and in this instance, the President has unambiguously met that criterion. Id. at 685. The statutory language of § 1182(f) is explicit and the Executive Order stays within the scope of the President’s textual authority, id. at 688, to bar “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The other considerations, implicating the United States’ internal and external interests and accounting for the President’s “broad discretion,” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also weigh in favor of the government.

As will be discussed at length in a forthcoming opinion, the government is unlikely to succeed on at least one of plaintiffs’ APA-based claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government has an obligation to provide specified reception and placement services to refugees once admitted to the United States. Under § 1522(a)(1)(A), the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—located within the Department of Health and Human Services—is directed, “to the extent of available appropriations,” to: (i) allocate adequate resources for employment training and job placement to enable refugees to achieve economic self-sufficiency as promptly as possible, (ii) ensure refugees can access sufficient English language instruction to facilitate effective resettlement without delay, (iii) guarantee that cash assistance is distributed to refugees in a way that does not undermine their pursuit of economic self-sufficiency, as set forth in subsection (e)(2), and (iv) guarantee that women enjoy equivalent opportunities as men to participate in training and instructional programs. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (addressing federal funding mechanisms for refugee services). Correspondingly, regarding unaccompanied refugee minors, § 1522(d)(2)(B) stipulates: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). For cash and medical assistance to recently arrived refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) mandates that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” It is worth noting that Congress has appropriated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance in FY 2025, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (adopting the funding from division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), though the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6), reduced that amount by $800 million. Section 1523 additionally imposes a reporting requirement on the Secretary, who must submit a comprehensive report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—are authorized to be delivered via contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Traditionally, the United States has entered into cooperative agreements with various organizations to furnish these services. The organizational plaintiffs are three such entities with which the Department of State previously maintained cooperative agreements.

As previously noted, the State Department ended all cooperative agreements relating to these services in February 2024. Recognizing the resulting cessation of funding, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nevertheless, at oral argument, the government conveyed to the panel that it did not know whether there had been any developments towards engaging a new agency or agencies capable of providing these reception and placement services.

Given the government’s lack of clarity as to its ability to furnish the reception and placement services required by 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore those cooperative agreements necessary for delivering the reception and placement services specified in § 1522 to refugees admitted into the United States. These services must encompass the routine services previously supplied to such refugees under earlier cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is afforded significant discretion and receives substantial deference regarding immigration policies, the district court erred by enjoining the executive branch from executing the President’s decision to restrict refugee admissions and associated services. Accordingly, I would grant a stay of the district court’s injunctions in full.

My fellow judges and I concur that the President possesses the authority to temporarily halt refugee admissions and, therefore, would stay the district court’s injunction as to that measure. However, we disagree regarding whether federal law imposes a legal obligation on the government to continue providing services to refugees admitted prior to the suspension’s effective date. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 to require that the government deliver specified services to refugees. In my view, the text is more reasonably understood as merely granting authority, rather than imposing a mandatory duty.

Turning to the statutory text: The heading of § 1522 is “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis supplied). The term “authorization” denotes a permissive, rather than compulsory, action. See AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (“permission to do something” or “official document granting such permission”). Therefore, Congress confers discretion under §1522, not an affirmative requirement.

Moreover, the four statutory subsections that allocate funding for various refugee services—for instance, “Program of initial resettlement,” “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—uniformly declare that the “Director is authorized” to administer such aid. U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis supplied). These provisions consistently indicate the executive’s discretionary authority over distribution of these funds.

In support of their position that Section 1522 creates a requirement for funding, my colleagues refer to §1522(a), titled “Conditions and consideration,” which employs the term “shall” along with the expression “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this provision is constrained by the phrase immediately preceding it: “In providing assistance under this section [namely, the discretionary funding mechanisms detailed in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” In effect, §1522(a) establishes certain mandatory “conditions and considerations” only if the government opts to allocate funds to refugee initiatives. For instance, it provides that the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [pursuant to the discretionary funding allowed under § 1522(c) for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] in order to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible.” This phrasing means that the specified condition or consideration becomes mandatory only if and when the government elects to provide such funding.

To further their mandatory spending argument, my colleagues refer to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which they suggest may impose particular duties on the Director. Yet, neither of these sections convincingly undermines the structure of § 1522 overall. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obliges the Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children solely when such responsibility is determined to be “necessary.” This provision also grants the Director authority “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite the use of “shall,” this subsection clearly defers to executive judgment rather than establishing a concrete obligation. Moreover, the record does not establish whether any unaccompanied refugee children are actually at issue in this case. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) instructs that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects for refugee cash and medical assistance “as needed,” thereby vesting the ultimate contours of those programs with executive discretion—a far cry from a definite congressional directive.

In my assessment, Section 1522 empowers the executive branch to establish such programs at its discretion, contingent upon appropriated funding. It does not impose an obligation that such programs must be operated. Since the statute does not require the executive branch to supply these services, this court lacks authority to compel them. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent in part.