Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

This case was heard on an expedited schedule with oral argument taking place on September 3, 2025. The court will issue an opinion in due time. Until then, this Order will function as a stay pending appeal and further directives from this court. We hereby set aside the administrative stay entered on July 18, 2025. Furthermore, we annul our previous stay from March 25, 2025, as subsequently amended on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The preliminary injunctions issued by the district court on February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45) and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79) are stayed in full, except as specifically provided otherwise in this Order. The government’s emergency motion filed on July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108) is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President found that allowing refugees to enter through the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and ordered that the “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until further findings are made. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (stating in relevant part: “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Subsequently, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all funding for the USRAP, claiming to act under the authority of a separate executive order titled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). Until further assessment, this suspension affected the funding for resettlement services within the United States for refugees who had already been admitted.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who were either already admitted into the United States or have received approval for U.S. resettlement but still reside abroad, as well as three organizations holding cooperative agreements with the State Department to conduct overseas processing for refugee applicants and provide resettlement services to refugees in the U.S. In February 2025, these plaintiffs initiated litigation in the Western District of Washington, contending that Executive Order 14163's suspension of the refugee program contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified in several provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further alleging that the withdrawal of funding for USRAP violated multiple provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (noting that the Refugee Act functions as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court delivered an oral preliminary injunction barring the enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government canceled all cooperative agreements providing reception and placement services for refugees within the United States and terminated all but one cooperative agreement for USRAP processing support overseas. On February 28, the district court issued a written order clarifying the February 25 injunction, including a prohibition on suspending USRAP funding. Subsequently, on March 24, the district court issued a second preliminary injunction requiring the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that were terminated after the February 25 decision. The government submitted notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay pending appeal of the district court’s February 28 order, which was partially granted by a motions panel of this court on March 25. Referring to Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the President’s issuance of Executive Order No. 14163 under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) "'exudes deference' to the President and 'vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].'" Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). However, we rejected the stay motion “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We later issued two further orders to clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel called for comprehensive briefing and instructed the Clerk of Court to set the appeal on the next available calendar.

After the completion of briefing and before oral argument, which was set for September 19, 2025, the district court issued an order on July 14 establishing procedures to implement the limited carveout and assigning a magistrate judge to supervise these proceedings. The government responded by filing an emergency motion on July 17 requesting enforcement, clarification, or modification of the stay order, which plaintiffs opposed. On July 18, 2025, we imposed an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order. Oral argument was scheduled to proceed on an expedited timetable.

DISCUSSION

After considering the parties' written submissions and oral presentations, the matter is now deemed submitted for determination, and an opinion addressing the merits will be issued in due course. Meanwhile, we hereby vacate both the administrative stay dated July 18 and the prior stay of March 25, along with its amendments on April 21 and May 9. We now grant this stay pending a final adjudication of this appeal. Accordingly, all aspects of the district court’s orders of February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, except as otherwise indicated below.

The governing standards for granting a stay are well recognized. Four factors are assessed: (1) whether the party seeking the stay has demonstrated a strong likelihood of prevailing on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will suffer irreparable harm if the stay is denied; (3) whether issuance of the stay would cause substantial harm to other interested parties; and (4) the public interest. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The first two factors—likelihood of success on the merits and irreparable harm—constitute “the most critical” considerations. Id. The government stands a strong chance of success in defending the validity of Executive Order No. 14163, which suspends the admission of refugees, and the Court is not authorized to conduct “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. The only condition set by § 1182(f) is that the President must “find[]” that allowing entry by covered aliens “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.” The President has clearly satisfied that standard here. Id. at 685. “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to bar the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The other considerations—which relate to domestic and foreign policy concerns of the United States—are informed by the President’s “broad discretion,” as the Court recognized in Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, and they also weigh in favor of the United States.

As will be discussed in detail in a forthcoming opinion, the government is unlikely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ Administrative Procedure Act claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, after refugees are admitted to the United States, the government is obligated to furnish specific reception and placement services. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) obliges the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—part of the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations”—to: (i) allocate adequate resources for employment-related training and placement to help refugees attain economic self-sufficiency as quickly as possible; (ii) provide opportunities for refugees to receive English language instruction sufficient to allow for effective resettlement as swiftly as possible; (iii) ensure that refugees have access to cash assistance in a manner that does not impede economic self-reliance, consistent with subsection (e)(2); and (iv) guarantee that women receive the same opportunities as men for training and educational programs. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (detailing federal refugee service funding). With respect to unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) provides: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). Regarding cash and medical assistance for newly arrived refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) stipulates that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” For fiscal year 2025, Congress has allocated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance. See Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating funding in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), though this was reduced by $800 million under the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Additionally, § 1523 mandates the Secretary to maintain accountability by submitting a comprehensive report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly termed “reception and placement” services—may be delivered via contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). The United States has customarily formed cooperative agreements with various resettlement organizations for the provision of these services. The organizational plaintiffs consist of three such entities that previously had cooperative agreements with the Department of State.

As previously noted, in February 2024, the State Department ended all cooperative agreements related to these services. After terminating this funding, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nevertheless, at oral argument before the panel, the government stated it did not know whether there had been any progress toward obtaining a new agency or agencies capable of delivering reception and placement services.

Given the government’s lack of clarity regarding its capacity to fulfill its statutory duty to provide reception and placement services as required by 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to reinstate cooperative agreements necessary to furnish the reception and placement services described in § 1522 to admitted refugees. These services must encompass those ordinarily and customarily provided under previous cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President possesses broad discretion and is afforded substantial deference concerning immigration issues, the district court improperly enjoined the executive branch from carrying out the President’s chosen policy to restrict the admission of refugees and the extension of related services. Accordingly, I would grant a stay of the district court’s injunctions in full.

While my fellow judges and I concur that the President holds the power to enact a pause on refugee admissions—and would therefore stay the portion of the district court’s injunction relating to this topic—we diverge over whether the federal government is legally obligated to offer services to refugees admitted prior to the effective date of the moratorium. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a duty on the government to supply specified services to refugees. In my assessment, the statute is most plausibly read as a grant of authority, not an obligatory command.

Our analysis begins with the text: Section 1522 bears the title “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis added). The word "authorization" connotes discretion rather than compulsion. See AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining the term as “permission to do something” or the “official document granting such permission”). By enacting §1522, Congress confers permission, not an imperative.

Additionally, the four explicit statutory subsections that allocate funds for various refugee services—for instance, “Program of initial resettlement,” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”— uniformly provide that the “Director is authorized” to extend such assistance. See U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). These phrases further indicate that the statute vests the executive branch with discretion in deciding whether or not to furnish such funding.

In supporting the argument that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues reference §1522(a)—entitled “Conditions and consideration”—which contains the word “shall” and the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this language is limited by the immediately preceding clause: “In providing assistance under this section [referring to the discretionary funding provisions of §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” Thus, §1522(a) sets forth certain mandatory “conditions and considerations” only when the government opts to finance refugee programs. For instance, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [within the scope of §1522(c)’s discretionary funding for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] to help refugees attain economic self-sufficiency as soon as feasible [in other words, this is the compulsory condition or consideration required when the government elects to fund such assistance].”

To reinforce their assertion of required spending, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which, it can be argued, place certain duties upon the Director. Nevertheless, neither sufficiently overcomes the general framework of § 1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) provides that the program’s Director bears legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children only if such responsibility is “necessary.” It additionally empowers the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Although the subsection employs “shall,” its language defers significantly to the discretion of the executive branch and does not set forth an unequivocal command. Furthermore, the record does not establish that any unaccompanied refugee children are implicated in this matter. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) declares the “Secretary shall develop and implement” cash and medical support initiatives for refugees “as needed.” The precise scope and content of these programs are left to the executive’s judgment, which does not amount to an explicit directive from Congress.

In my perspective, Section 1522 simply empowers the executive to design programs at its own discretion contingent upon the availability of appropriations; it does not obligate the operation of such programs. Since the statute does not impose a duty upon the executive to provide these services, the court lacks authority to compel their provision. I therefore respectfully dissent in part.