Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump promulgated an executive order titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Relying on the authority granted by 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President made a determination that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and ordered that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” while further evaluation was conducted. Exec. Order No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (stating, in pertinent part, “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Subsequently, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all funding for the USRAP program, claiming authority under another executive order named “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). This halt encompassed support for domestic resettlement services provided to refugees allowed to enter the United States, pending additional examination.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who have either previously been admitted to the United States or have received approval for resettlement in the country but have not yet arrived, along with three organizations that maintained cooperative agreements with the State Department for conducting overseas refugee processing and delivering resettlement services to admitted refugees. In February 2025, plaintiffs initiated legal proceedings in the Western District of Washington, asserting that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (as codified in multiple provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and alleging that the cessation of funding for USRAP violated certain provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court orally granted a preliminary injunction preventing enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The next day, on February 26, the government revoked all agreements for reception and placement services for refugees within the United States, as well as all but one of the overseas agreements for USRAP processing support. Subsequently, on February 28, the district court issued a written order clarifying that the preliminary injunction issued on February 25 also bars the suspension of USRAP funding. On March 24, the district court entered a second preliminary injunction, requiring the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements terminated after the February 25 injunction. The government filed notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order while the appeal was pending, and a motions panel from this court partially granted that request on March 25. In our order, referencing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the authority granted to the President under Executive Order No. 14163, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nevertheless, we denied the stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We subsequently entered two more orders to clarify the scope of this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel also instructed the parties to submit full briefing and directed the Clerk of Court to place the case on the next available hearing calendar.

After the parties completed briefing and prior to the oral argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court on July 14 issued an order to create a framework for implementing the limited carveout and designated a magistrate judge to supervise the process. The government responded by filing, on July 17, an emergency motion asking the court to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay order, which the plaintiffs opposed. On July 18, 2025, we granted an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order and arranged for an expedited hearing.

DISCUSSION

After considering the parties’ written submissions and the oral argument, the court submits the case for a decision. An opinion addressing the merits will be forthcoming. Meanwhile, we hereby dissolve our administrative stay dated July 18 as well as our prior stay entered on March 25 and subsequently modified on April 21 and May 9. A new stay is now entered pending the final determination of this appeal. The district court's orders issued on February 28 and March 24, 2025 are stayed in full, except as otherwise specified herein.

The criteria for granting a stay are firmly established. The court assesses four considerations: (1) whether the applicant has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of succeeding on the merits; (2) whether the applicant faces irreparable harm if the stay is denied; (3) whether granting the stay will cause substantial injury to other parties involved; and (4) where the public interest lies. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The first two criteria—probability of success on the merits and risk of irreparable harm—are “the most critical.” Id. The government is likely to succeed in defending against plaintiffs’ challenge to the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s temporary pause on refugee admissions, and the court is constrained from conducting “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. “The sole prerequisite set forth in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685. “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to temporarily prohibit “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The remaining considerations, implicating the domestic and foreign interests of the United States, as determined by the President’s “broad discretion,” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also weigh in favor of the United States.

The reasons underlying this determination will be addressed in detail in a subsequent opinion; nonetheless, it appears that the government is unlikely to succeed regarding at least one of the plaintiffs’ APA claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is obligated to provide particular reception and placement services to refugees after they are admitted into the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) mandates the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—housed within the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations”—to: (i) allocate sufficient resources for employment training and placement, thereby fostering the rapid attainment of economic self-sufficiency for refugees; (ii) ensure refugees have the opportunity to obtain enough English language training for prompt and effective resettlement; (iii) guarantee that cash assistance is administered in a way that does not hinder refugees’ pursuit of economic self-sufficiency, consistent with subsection (e)(2); and (iv) ensure equal access for women and men to training and instruction. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (outlining available federal funding for refugee services). Furthermore, for unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). Regarding cash and medical support for recently resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to “develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” It is noted that for fiscal year 2025, Congress appropriated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (referencing appropriations in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), a figure subsequently reduced by $800 million by the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Section 1523 further imposes a reporting duty on the Secretary, who must submit a detailed report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—may be administered via contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements involving “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). The United States has traditionally entered into cooperative agreements with a variety of resettlement organizations to carry out these services. The organizational plaintiffs in this case are three such entities with which the Department of State has held cooperative agreements.

As previously noted, in February 2024, the State Department ended all such cooperative agreements for the provision of these services. Recognizing the resulting termination of funds for resettlement services, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. However, during oral argument before the panel, the government stated that it was not aware of any updates regarding efforts to engage a new agency or agencies to deliver such services.

Given the government's ongoing uncertainty about fulfilling its obligation to provide the reception and placement services mandated by 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is hereby ordered to restore the cooperative agreements necessary to deliver the reception and placement services specified in § 1522 to refugees admitted to the United States. These services must encompass the normal and customary assistance that has previously been provided to such refugees under earlier cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is afforded considerable leeway and respect in the realm of immigration policy, the district court erred by restraining the executive branch from enacting the President’s decision to restrict refugee admissions and deny accompanying services. For this reason, I would grant a stay of the district court’s injunctions in full.

My fellow judges and I concur that the President possesses the authority to suspend the admission of refugees, and therefore, we agree to stay the district court’s injunction in that regard. However, we differ as to whether there exists a legal obligation for the federal government to furnish services to refugees who were admitted shortly prior to the implementation of the suspension. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a requirement on the government to deliver specific services to refugees. In my view, however, the statute is best understood as providing authorization rather than an obligation.

To begin, the heading of Section 1522 reads, “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis supplied). The term “authorization” connotes a discretionary, not compulsory, function. See AUTHORIZATION, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining “authorization” as “permission to do something” or “the official document granting such permission”). Therefore, by enacting §1522, Congress has granted permission for such actions, not imposed a directive.

In addition, the four distinct statutory subsections allocating funds for refugee services—such as “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—all declare that the “Director is authorized” to provide such services. See U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). These provisions again underscore that the executive branch maintains discretion over the distribution of such funds.

In support of their position that Section 1522 requires mandatory funding, my colleagues refer to §1522(a), titled “Conditions and consideration.” This subsection employs the term “shall” as well as the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this language is expressly limited by the phrase that immediately precedes it: “In providing assistance under this section [referring to the discretionary funding provisions in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” Put differently, §1522(a) sets forth certain mandatory “conditions and considerations,” but only in the event that the government opts to finance refugee assistance programs. As an illustration, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [under § 1522(c)’s discretionary funding for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] in order to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible [which represents the obligatory condition or consideration to be addressed if the government chooses to allocate such funding].”

To further support their assertion of mandatory expenditure, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which arguably create certain duties for the Director. Nevertheless, neither subsection persuasively challenges the fundamental discretionary nature of § 1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obliges the program’s Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children, but only when such responsibility is “necessary.” The provision also grants authority to the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite employing the word “shall,” this subsection is replete with deference to the executive and does not contain a definite command. Furthermore, the record is unclear as to whether unaccompanied refugee children are even relevant here. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) provides that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” cash and medical assistance projects for refugees “as needed.” The details and scope of these programs are left to the executive’s judgment, undermining any claim of a congressional directive.

In my assessment, Section 1522 empowers the executive branch to design assistance programs according to its discretion when appropriations are available, but does not require the continuation or existence of those programs. Since the statutory language does not obligate the executive to furnish these services, it is beyond our court’s authority to order their provision. Therefore, I respectfully dissent in part.