This matter was argued before the court on an expedited schedule on September 3, 2025. The panel will issue its opinion in due course. Meanwhile, this Order shall serve as a stay pending appeal and until further order of the court. The administrative stay previously entered on July 18, 2025, is hereby vacated. In addition, we vacate the prior stay ordered on March 25, 2025, as subsequently amended on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The district court’s preliminary injunctions dated February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45) and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79) are stayed in full except as otherwise provided herein. The government’s emergency motion filed on July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108) is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order named “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Invoking authority under 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President found that permitting “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and instructed that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until additional determinations could be made. Exec. Order No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (stating, in pertinent part: “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Subsequently, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all funding for USRAP, purportedly acting under a separate executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). The suspension, pending further evaluation, also covered funding for resettlement services provided to refugees already admitted within the United States.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who were either previously granted entry into the United States or have received approval for resettlement but still reside outside the country, as well as three organizations that had entered into cooperative agreements with the State Department to facilitate overseas processing for individuals seeking refugee status and to provide resettlement assistance to those admitted as refugees to the United States. In February 2025, the plaintiffs initiated an action in the Western District of Washington, contending that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified in various sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further alleging that the defunding of USRAP was inconsistent with various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court verbally granted a preliminary injunction, barring enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, on February 26, the government terminated all cooperative agreements to provide reception and placement services for refugees within the United States, along with all but one cooperative agreement relating to USRAP processing support overseas. On February 28, the district court issued a written order clarifying the February 25 preliminary injunction’s boundaries, and indicated that it also enjoined the suspension of USRAP funding. Subsequently, on March 24, the district court issued a second preliminary injunction directing the State Department to reinstate any cooperative agreements terminated after the February 25 order. The government submitted notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order while its appeal was pending, which a motions panel of this court partially granted on March 25. Citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the authority the President relied upon to issue Executive Order No. 14163, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “exudes deference” to the President and grants him “ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). However, we denied the requested stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We later entered two further orders to clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel set a briefing schedule and ordered that the Clerk of Court calendar the appeal at the earliest opportunity.

After the completion of briefing, but prior to the argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court issued, on July 14, an order establishing a structure for enforcing the limited carveout and appointing a magistrate judge to supervise implementation. Subsequently, on July 17, the government filed an emergency motion seeking enforcement, clarification, or amendment of the stay order, which plaintiffs opposed. We issued an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order on July 18, 2025, and scheduled oral argument on an expedited timeline.

DISCUSSION

After consideration of the parties' briefing and oral arguments, the matter is now under submission, and a decision on the merits will be forthcoming. Pending that decision, we hereby dissolve our administrative stay of July 18, as well as the stay issued on March 25, as subsequently modified on April 21 and May 9. We now grant a stay effective until this appeal is finally resolved. Accordingly, the district court’s orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025, are fully stayed, subject to the exceptions set forth below.

The criteria for granting a stay are firmly established. We evaluate four elements: (1) whether the applicant seeking the stay has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of prevailing on the merits; (2) whether, without a stay, the applicant will suffer irreparable harm; (3) whether a stay would cause substantial harm to other interested parties; and (4) the public interest. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). Among these, the most pivotal are the first two—the likelihood of success and irreparable injury. Id. The government is likely to succeed against plaintiffs’ contesting the lawfulness of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and our review does not require us to undertake “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” See Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. “The sole prerequisite in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ the entry of the affected aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ That requirement is clearly met here.” Id. at 685. “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is unambiguous, and the [Executive Order] does not surpass any textual restriction on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, authorizing suspension of “the entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The other considerations, which relate to both the domestic and international interests of the United States, support the United States as well, particularly in light of the “broad discretion” that the President is afforded. See Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84.

However, as will be set out in a forthcoming opinion in greater detail, the government is unlikely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ claims brought under the APA. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government has an obligation to deliver certain reception and placement services for refugees after their arrival in the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) instructs the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—part of the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations,” to: (i) ensure sufficient resources for employment training and job placement are provided in order to foster refugees’ economic independence as soon as possible, (ii) grant refugees access to enough English language instruction so that they may be integrated effectively at the earliest opportunity, (iii) guarantee that cash aid is distributed to refugees in such a way that does not inhibit their economic self-sufficiency, consistent with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) ensure that women are afforded equal access as men to participate in training and education programs. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (specifying federal funding available for refugee services). Correspondingly, regarding unaccompanied refugee minors, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). In terms of cash and medical assistance for newly resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) directs that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” Notably, for fiscal year 2025, Congress appropriated $3.178 billion toward migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (adopting the funds set forth in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), with an $800 million reduction implemented by the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Section 1523 imposes a duty on the Secretary to deliver a detailed report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as "reception and placement" services—may be delivered through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements entered into with "public or private nonprofit agencies." U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Historically, the United States has executed cooperative agreements with different resettlement organizations to supply these services. The plaintiff organizations are among those entities with which the Department of State previously held such cooperative agreements.

As previously mentioned, in February 2024, the State Department ended all such cooperative agreements for these services. After acknowledging the cessation of funding for resettlement services, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was "actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services." Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Notwithstanding that statement, the government stated during oral argument before the panel that it did not know whether any action had been taken toward obtaining a new agency or agencies capable of providing reception and placement services.

Given the government's lack of certainty as to whether it can deliver the reception and placement services required by statute under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore those cooperative agreements necessary for providing the reception and placement services set forth in § 1522 to refugees admitted to the United States. Such services must include those typically and customarily made available to these refugees under prior cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is accorded broad discretion and substantial deference in immigration affairs, the district court erroneously barred the executive branch from enacting the President’s policy to restrict refugee admissions and associated services. Therefore, I would grant a full stay of the district court’s injunctions.

My fellow panelists concur that the President possesses the power to halt refugee admissions and, accordingly, would stay the district court’s injunction regarding this point. However, we differ on the issue of whether the federal government has a legal obligation to provide services to individuals who were recently admitted prior to the moratorium’s start. My colleagues read 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a requirement upon the government to render certain services to refugees. From my perspective, this statute is best construed as a grant of authority rather than a compulsory directive.

Beginning with the basics, Section 1522 is entitled “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis added). An authorization is inherently permissive, not obligatory. See AUTHORIZATION, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining authorization as “permission to do something” or the “official document granting such permission”). By this statute, Congress enables action in §1522 but does not make it compulsory.

Additionally, the four particular statutory sections that appropriate funds for various refugee programs—such as “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—each use the phrase “Director is authorized” to provide such assistance. U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). This language, again, signals that the executive branch retains discretion over whether or how funds are provided.

In support of their position that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues reference §1522(a), entitled “Conditions and consideration,” which includes the term “shall” alongside the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this wording is limited by the preceding clause: “In providing assistance under this section [which refers to the discretionary funding provisions set forth in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” Essentially, §1522(a) sets forth obligatory “conditions and considerations” that apply only in the event that the government opts to fund refugee programs. As an illustration, the Director “shall...make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [pursuant to the discretionary funding authority under § 1522(c) for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] in order to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible [which exemplifies the kind of required consideration if, and only if, the government elects to allocate funding].”

My colleagues further attempt to support their contention regarding mandatory expenditures by referencing subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which may be read to place certain duties upon the Director. Nevertheless, neither subsection effectively overrides the general functioning of § 1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obligates the Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee minors strictly when such responsibility is deemed “necessary.” It also grants the Director the authority “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” While the subsection employs the word “shall,” its language largely defers to executive judgment and lacks a definite mandate. Moreover, the record does not establish whether any unaccompanied refugee children are presently at issue in this matter. In like manner, subsection (e)(7)(A) provides that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects offering cash and medical assistance to refugees “as needed,” leaving the specifics of such programs entirely within the executive’s discretion—scarcely an unequivocal command from Congress.

Based on this analysis, I conclude that Section 1522 grants the executive branch discretion to design programs if appropriations are made available, but does not compel the operation of any such program. Since the statute does not obligate the executive to deliver these services, our court is not authorized to order them. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent in part.