Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed Executive Order No. 14163, titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program,” which was published at 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under authority granted by 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President concluded that allowing “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and ordered that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until additional determinations are made. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (“Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). On January 24, 2025, citing Executive Order No. 14169, titled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid,” the Department of State halted all funding for the USRAP, as published at 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). This funding freeze extended, pending further review, to monies allocated for domestic resettlement services provided to refugees in the United States.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who had either already been admitted to the United States or were approved for resettlement in the U.S. but remained abroad, as well as three organizations that had cooperative agreements with the State Department to conduct overseas processing for individuals seeking refugee status and to provide resettlement services for refugees entering the United States. In February 2025, plaintiffs initiated litigation in the Western District of Washington, asserting that Executive Order 14163’s suspension of the refugee program contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified throughout the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further alleging that the decision to eliminate funding for USRAP breached various sections of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as establishing “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court delivered an oral preliminary injunction barring the enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. Subsequently, on February 26, the government ended all cooperative agreements related to the provision of reception and placement services for refugees domestically and terminated all but one cooperative agreement supporting USRAP processing overseas. On February 28, the district court entered a written order clarifying the February 25 preliminary injunction to include a ban on suspending USRAP funding. On March 24, the district court issued another preliminary injunction, this time directing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements terminated following the February 25 order. The government filed appeals on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order while its appeal was pending, and a motions panel of this court partially granted that stay on March 25. In doing so, and citing Trump v. Hawaii, we recognized that the authority invoked by the President in issuing Executive Order No. 14163, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nevertheless, we denied the request for a stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We later issued two more orders to clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel required full briefing and directed the Clerk of Court to assign the appeal to the next available hearing calendar.

After briefing, but prior to the scheduled argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court issued, on July 14, an order setting forth a framework for enforcing the limited carveout and designating a magistrate judge to administer it. On July 17, the government submitted an emergency motion to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay, which the plaintiffs opposed. On July 18, 2025, we entered an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order. Oral argument was set on an expedited schedule.

DISCUSSION

After consideration of the parties' written submissions and oral presentations, the matter has been taken under advisement for a ruling. A substantive opinion will be delivered in due time. Meanwhile, we hereby rescind our administrative stay dated July 18, in addition to the stay entered on March 25 as modified on April 21 and May 9. We now impose a stay pending the ultimate determination of this appeal. Accordingly, the district court’s orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, with the exceptions indicated below.

The criteria governing the granting of a stay are well settled. We weigh four considerations: (1) whether the party seeking the stay has demonstrated a strong likelihood of prevailing on the merits; (2) whether, absent a stay, the applicant will suffer irreparable harm; (3) whether granting the stay would cause substantial injury to other parties involved; and (4) the public interest. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The most important among these are the first two—probability of success on the merits and irreparable harm. Id. The government has shown a likelihood of success in defending against the plaintiffs’ arguments that Executive Order No. 14163 suspending refugee admissions is invalid; moreover, we are not authorized to conduct “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. Section 1182(f) simply requires that the President “find[]” that entry of the specified aliens “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and in this instance, the President has satisfied this prerequisite. Id. at 685. “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, permitting suspension of “the entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The additional factors, which involve both internal and external interests of the United States as subject to the “broad discretion” vested in the President, see Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also support the United States.

As will be detailed more fully in a forthcoming opinion, the government does not appear likely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ claims brought under the APA. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, following their admission into the United States, the government is obligated to provide specific reception and placement services to refugees. Under § 1522(a)(1)(A), the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which operates within the Department of Health and Human Services, is required—"to the extent of available appropriations"—to: (i) allocate adequate resources for employment training and job placement with the aim of facilitating rapid economic self-sufficiency for refugees, (ii) offer refugees access to English language instruction to aid in their expeditious resettlement, (iii) ensure that the distribution of cash assistance to refugees does not impede their movement toward economic self-reliance, in accordance with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) guarantee that women receive equal opportunities as men for participating in training and educational programs. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (outlining federal funding for refugee-related services). In a similar vein, for unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: "During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care" (emphasis in original). Concerning the provision of cash and medical aid to refugees newly arrived in the United States, § 1522(e)(7)(A) mandates that the Secretary of Health and Human Services "shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed." For fiscal year 2025, Congress allocated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating the appropriations of division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), though this amount was subsequently decreased by $800 million under the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Under § 1523, the Secretary must provide accountability by submitting a comprehensive report "on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year."

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly termed “reception and placement” services—may be delivered by means of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Historically, the United States has formed cooperative agreements with multiple resettlement organizations for the provision of these services. The plaintiff organizations are three such entities that have had cooperative agreements with the Department of State.

As previously noted, in February 2024, the Department of State ended all existing cooperative agreements for the provision of these services. Acknowledging the cessation of funding for resettlement services, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. However, despite this statement, the government later told the panel during oral argument that it did not know whether there had been any progress in identifying or securing a new agency or agencies to deliver reception and placement services.

Given the government’s lack of clarity as to its ability to furnish the reception and placement services required under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore those cooperative agreements necessary to supply the reception and placement services specified in § 1522 to refugees admitted to the United States. Such services must encompass the customary and standard services that have previously been made available to these refugees under earlier cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President possesses considerable discretion and is afforded substantial deference in immigration affairs, the district court erroneously prevented the executive branch from executing the President’s policy choice to restrict the admission of refugees and the provision of services to them. Therefore, I would grant a complete stay of the district court’s injunctions.

While my colleagues and I concur that the President holds authority to establish a suspension of refugee admissions and, accordingly, would stay the injunction imposed by the district court in that respect, we diverge regarding whether the federal government is legally obligated to provide services to individuals who were recently admitted before the moratorium was initiated. My colleagues interpret 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a requirement upon the government to offer certain services to refugees. In my view, however, the statute is best understood as conferring permission rather than imposing a mandate.

To begin, the title of § 1522 reads: “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). The term “authorization” connotes a permissive act rather than a compulsory one. See AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining it as “permission to do something” or an “official document granting such permission”). Thus, § 1522 enables but does not obligate action by Congress.

Moreover, each of the four detailed statutory subsections that allocate funding for particular refugee services—for instance, “Program of initial resettlement,” “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—specify that the “Director is authorized” to deliver assistance. See U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis in original). These are further indications from Congress that the executive branch retains discretion in the allocation of funding.

In asserting that Section 1522 creates an obligation for mandatory funding, my colleagues reference §1522(a)—entitled “Conditions and consideration”—which employs the term “shall” as well as the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” Yet, this language is tempered by the phrase immediately preceding it: “In providing assistance under this section [which pertains to the discretionary funding provisions under §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” This means that §1522(a) only establishes certain mandatory “conditions and considerations” in circumstances where the government elects to finance refugee programs. For instance, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [pursuant to § 1522(c)’s discretionary funding for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] in order to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible [which serves as the mandatory condition or consideration that must be heeded if the government opts to provide such funding].”

To reinforce their assertion that spending is compelled, my colleagues reference subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which may appear to impose obligations on the Director. Nonetheless, neither provision effectively undermines the broader scheme of § 1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obligates the program’s Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children solely if such responsibility is deemed “necessary.” The subsection also empowers the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite its use of the word “shall,” this subsection displays significant deference to executive branch judgment and stops short of establishing a definitive mandate. Furthermore, the record does not clarify whether any unaccompanied refugee children are at issue in this case. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) provides that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” cash and medical support projects for refugees “as needed.” Determination of the nature and scope of these programs is left to executive discretion, and therefore does not amount to a congressional directive.

From my perspective, Section 1522 empowers the executive branch to design programs according to its own judgment, contingent upon the existence of appropriations. It does not obligate these programs to be administered. Since there is no legal requirement that the executive branch deliver these services, this court is not authorized to compel their provision. I therefore respectfully dissent in part.