Title: Pacito v. Trump  
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit  
Date: September 12, 2025  
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939  
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

Oral argument in this matter was conducted on an expedited schedule on September 3, 2025. An opinion will be forthcoming in due time. Until such opinion issues, this Order will serve as a stay pending appeal and until further directive from this court. The administrative stay imposed on July 18, 2025 is hereby lifted. Additionally, our earlier stay from March 25, 2025, along with its amendments on April 21 and May 9, 2025, is also lifted. The district court’s preliminary injunctions dated February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45), and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79), are stayed in full with the exception of the portions explicitly preserved by this Order. The emergency motion submitted by the government on July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108), is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President concluded that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and therefore ordered that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until further determinations could be made. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (stating in relevant part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Subsequently, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all financial support for the USRAP program, citing a different executive order called “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). As part of this broader review, funding for domestic resettlement services for refugees already admitted to the United States was also paused.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who had either already been admitted into the United States or had received approval for resettlement but remained outside the country, along with three organizations that had cooperative agreements with the State Department for providing overseas processing assistance to refugee applicants and delivering resettlement services to refugees admitted into the United States. In February 2025, these plaintiffs initiated litigation in the Western District of Washington, asserting that Executive Order 14163's suspension of the refugee program contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (as codified in multiple sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and that the withdrawal of funding for USRAP violated multiple requirements under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (noting the Refugee Act serves as "a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons"). On February 25, the district court, through an oral ruling, granted a preliminary injunction that barred the enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government terminated each cooperative agreement to deliver reception and placement services to refugees in the United States, as well as all but one agreement related to USRAP processing assistance overseas. On February 28, the district court issued a written order clarifying the breadth of the February 25 preliminary injunction, indicating that it additionally enjoins the suspension of funding for USRAP. On March 24, the district court entered a second preliminary injunction directing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been terminated after the court's February 25 decision. The government submitted notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order while the appeal was pending, which a motions panel from this court partially granted on March 25. Citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the authority exercised by the President in issuing Executive Order No. 14163, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (citing 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nevertheless, we denied the stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We issued two further orders to clarify the contours of this “limited carveout from the stay.” See Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel called for full briefing and instructed the Clerk of Court to calendar the appeal at the earliest opportunity.

After briefing had been completed but prior to the scheduled argument date of September 19, 2025, the district court issued an order on July 14 establishing procedures to implement the limited carveout, including appointing a magistrate judge to supervise those procedures. The government then filed an emergency motion on July 17 seeking enforcement, clarification, or modification of the stay order, which the plaintiffs contested. On July 18, 2025, we entered an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order and ordered oral argument on an expedited schedule.

DISCUSSION

After considering the parties’ briefing and oral argument, the matter is now under submission for a decision. An opinion on the merits will be forthcoming. In the meantime, we hereby lift our prior administrative stay dated July 18, as well as our earlier stay issued on March 25, as amended on April 21 and May 9. We now order this stay to remain in place pending the ultimate resolution of the appeal. The district court's orders from February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, except as otherwise specified below.

The governing principles for granting a stay are well settled. We weigh four factors: (1) whether the applicant seeking the stay has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of success on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will suffer irreparable harm in the absence of a stay; (3) whether granting the stay would cause substantial harm to other interested parties; and (4) the location of the public interest. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The first two factors—the likelihood of success on the merits and the threat of irreparable harm—are “the most critical.” Id. The government is likely to succeed against the plaintiffs’ challenge concerning the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and the court is not permitted to conduct a searching review of “the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. According to § 1182(f), “the sole prerequisite... is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685. Further, the statute's language is “clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to suspend the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The remaining considerations, which involve both the United States’ domestic and foreign interests as shaped by the President’s “broad discretion,” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also favor the United States.

However, as will be set out more thoroughly in an opinion to be issued later, the government appears unlikely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ claims brought under the APA. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is obligated to supply particular reception and placement services to refugees once they have entered the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) directs the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, housed within the Department of Health and Human Services, “to the extent of available appropriations,” to: (i) allocate adequate resources for employment training and placement to facilitate refugees’ prompt attainment of economic self-sufficiency; (ii) afford refugees access to sufficient English language instruction to enable expeditious resettlement; (iii) ensure that provision of cash assistance does not undermine refugees’ pursuit of economic independence, in accordance with subsection (e)(2); and (iv) guarantee that women are afforded training and instructional opportunities equal to those of men. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (outlining the federal financial assistance for refugee programs). In the context of unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). With regard to cash and medical benefits for recently resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) stipulates that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” Notably, for the fiscal year 2025, Congress allocated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, as specified in Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (adopting appropriations designated in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147); this funding was reduced by $800 million by the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Section 1523 also imposes a reporting requirement on the Secretary, mandating a comprehensive report on activities conducted under this subchapter be submitted to the Judiciary Committees of both the House of Representatives and the Senate by January 31 following the end of every fiscal year.

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly called “reception and placement” services—may be delivered via contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Historically, the United States has established cooperative agreements with several resettlement organizations for the purpose of providing these services. The organizational plaintiffs in this case are three such entities that have entered into cooperative agreements with the Department of State.

As previously noted, in February 2024, the State Department ended all existing cooperative agreements for the provision of these services. After acknowledging the termination of funding for resettlement services, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. However, despite this statement, at oral argument before the panel, the government indicated that it did not know whether any steps had been taken toward engaging a new agency or agencies capable of furnishing reception and placement services.

Given the government's lack of clarity concerning its capacity to fulfill the statutory requirement to provide reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore those cooperative agreements that are necessary for the provision of reception and placement services as set forth in § 1522 to refugees who have been admitted into the United States. Such services are to include the regular and standard offerings previously available to these refugees under earlier cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is granted significant discretion and receives considerable deference in immigration policy, the district court erred by prohibiting the executive branch from carrying out the President’s decision to restrict the admission of refugees and associated services. Therefore, I would grant a full stay of the district court’s injunctions.

While my fellow judges and I concur that the President possesses the power to place a temporary halt on refugee admissions—and thus would stay the district court’s injunction regarding that aspect—we disagree as to whether federal authorities are legally compelled to continue providing services to refugees who had already been admitted prior to the effective date of the suspension. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as obliging the government to deliver specified services to refugees. From my perspective, the statute is best understood as granting authority, not imposing a duty.

Let us look at the statute’s origin: Section 1522 is titled, “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees” (emphasis supplied). The term “authorization” denotes a discretionary, not a compulsory, act. See AUTHORIZATION, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining the term as “permission to do something” or the “official document granting such permission”). Thus, Congress permits, but does not require, conduct under § 1522.

In addition, each of the four explicit statutory subsections allocating funds for various refugee services—such as “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—specifically state that the “Director is authorized” to provide these services. See U.S.C. § 1522(b)-(e) (emphasis supplied). Once again, these provisions signal that the executive branch retains discretion over the allocation of resources.

In asserting that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues refer to §1522(a)—entitled “Conditions and consideration”—which includes the term “shall” along with the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this is limited by the language just before it: “In providing assistance under this section [referring to the discretionary funding in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” Put differently, §1522(a) establishes certain required “conditions and considerations” only if the government opts to allocate resources to refugee programs. For instance, the Director “shall...make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [relating to §1522(c)’s discretionary grants and contracts for refugee services] in order to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible [indicating this is a mandatory consideration applied when the government chooses to fund it].”

To support their assertion of required expenditures, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which could be read as placing some duties upon the Director. Nevertheless, neither subsection significantly undermines the fundamental structure of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) stipulates that the program’s Director is to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children solely when such responsibility is “necessary.” This provision also allows the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite containing the word “shall,” the subsection is clearly deferential to executive judgment and establishes no concrete mandate. Moreover, the record is unclear regarding the presence of any unaccompanied refugee children relevant to this matter. In the same vein, subsection (e)(7)(A) provides that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects supplying cash and medical assistance to refugees “as needed.” The breadth and detail of these programs are determined by executive discretion, which falls short of a congressional requirement.

From my perspective, Section 1522 grants the executive branch the authority to design and implement programs at its discretion if appropriations are made available, but it does not obligate the operation of those programs. Because the statute does not impose a duty on the executive branch to deliver these services, our court lacks authority to compel them. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent in part.