Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President found that permitting “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and ordered that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until additional determinations could be made. Exec. Order No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (which states in part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Subsequently, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all financial support for the USRAP, ostensibly pursuant to a different executive order titled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). As part of this ongoing assessment, the pause in funding extended to financial support for services related to refugee resettlement within the United States.

The plaintiffs comprise refugees who had either already been admitted to the United States or were approved for U.S. resettlement but remained abroad, along with three organizations that maintained cooperative agreements with the State Department to facilitate overseas processing for refugee status applicants and to provide resettlement services to refugees accepted into the United States. In February 2025, the plaintiffs brought an action in the Western District of Washington, asserting that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (currently codified throughout the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further alleging that the withdrawal of USRAP funding violated several sections of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court, via oral ruling, granted a preliminary injunction preventing the enforcement or execution of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. Subsequently, on February 26, the government ended all cooperative agreements pertaining to reception and placement services for refugees within the United States, as well as all but one agreement providing USRAP processing support overseas. The district court then issued a written order on February 28, clarifying the reach of the prior injunction, and including a prohibition on suspending USRAP funding. On March 24, the district court issued a further preliminary injunction requiring the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements terminated after the February 25 decision. The government filed notices of appeal on both February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s order issued on February 28, pending appeal; this court’s motions panel partially granted that request on March 25. Citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the authority the President invoked to issue Executive Order No. 14163, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “exudes deference” to the President and “vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). However, we denied the stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Subsequently, we issued two further orders to clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel called for full briefing and instructed the Clerk of Court to set the appeal for hearing on the earliest available calendar.

After briefing but prior to the argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court, on July 14, entered an order implementing a mechanism for the limited carveout and appointing a magistrate judge to supervise this arrangement. On July 17, the government submitted an emergency motion seeking to enforce, clarify, or amend the stay order, opposed by the plaintiffs. On July 18, 2025, we administratively stayed the district court’s July 14 order. Oral argument was calendared on an expedited basis.

DISCUSSION

After considering the briefs filed by the parties and hearing oral argument, the matter is now submitted for adjudication. A ruling addressing the merits will follow in due course. Pending that, we hereby lift the administrative stay issued on July 18 as well as the prior stay granted on March 25, including its modifications on April 21 and May 9. We now impose this stay to remain in effect until this appeal is finally resolved. All of the district court’s orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025, are hereby stayed in full, with the exceptions stated below.

The criteria governing the grant of a stay are firmly established. Four factors are considered: (1) whether the party seeking the stay has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of succeeding on the merits; (2) whether that party will suffer irreparable harm if the stay is denied; (3) whether issuance of the stay will cause substantial harm to other interested parties; and (4) the public interest. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). Among these, the first two—likelihood of success on the merits and the risk of irreparable injury—are considered the most important, id. The government is likely to succeed with respect to the plaintiffs’ challenge to the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s pause on refugee admissions. Furthermore, our review does not permit “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. As the Supreme Court has stated, “The sole prerequisite set forth in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685. The statute’s “language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, concerning the suspension of the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The remaining considerations—which address both domestic and international interests of the United States, as reflected in the President’s “broad discretion,” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84—also weigh in favor of the United States.

As will be elaborated in detail in a forthcoming opinion, the government appears unlikely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ Administrative Procedure Act claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, certain reception and placement services must be provided by the government to refugees upon their entry to the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) obligates the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—a division of the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations”—to: (i) allocate adequate resources for employment training and placement to promote economic self-sufficiency for refugees as expeditiously as possible, (ii) offer refugees access to English language instruction sufficient to facilitate their prompt effective resettlement, (iii) ensure the availability of cash assistance in a manner that does not disincentivize economic self-sufficiency, consistent with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) guarantee equal participation opportunities in training and instruction for women and men. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (detailing federal funding mechanisms for refugee assistance programs). Regarding unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) provides: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). As to interim cash and medical assistance for recently arrived refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) directs that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” For fiscal year 2025, Congress appropriated $3.178 billion to migration and refugee assistance, as specified in Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating appropriations from division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), but this amount was decreased by $800 million per the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Accountability under section 1523 is further imposed, requiring the Secretary to submit a comprehensive report detailing “activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, resettlement services—commonly called “reception and placement” services—may be delivered through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Traditionally, the United States has utilized cooperative agreements with various resettlement organizations for this purpose. The organizational plaintiffs are three such entities that have maintained cooperative agreements with the Department of State.

As noted earlier, in February 2024, the State Department ended all cooperative agreements related to these services. Following this termination, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. However, during oral argument, the government informed the panel that it was unaware of any developments regarding the selection of a new agency or agencies to deliver reception and placement services.

Given the government’s lack of clarity concerning the fulfillment of its statutory duty to provide reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore the cooperative agreements necessary to deliver the services delineated in § 1522 to refugees admitted to the United States. The restored services must include those typically and customarily provided to refugees under prior cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is granted significant discretion and courts generally defer to the executive in immigration policy, the district court erred by prohibiting the executive branch from carrying out the President's decision to restrict refugee admissions and associated services. For that reason, I would fully stay the district court's injunctions.

While my fellow panel members and I agree that the President possesses the power to suspend the acceptance of refugees, supporting a stay of the district court's injunction as it relates to that aspect, we are divided on whether the federal government bears a legal obligation to provide services for individuals admitted before the suspension took effect. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a requirement on the government to deliver certain services to refugees. In my assessment, the text is better read as permitting such services, not compelling them.

To begin, the title of Section 1522 is “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). The term authorization indicates discretion rather than obligation. See AUTHORIZATION, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (describing it as “permission to do something” or “official document granting such permission”). Thus, Congress enables the actions described in § 1522, without imposing a duty to undertake them.

Additionally, four specific statutory subsections establishing funding for different categories of refugee services—such as “Program of initial resettlement,” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—repeatedly specify that the “Director is authorized” to offer such assistance. See U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis in original). These provisions further demonstrate that the authority over disbursing such funding lies with the discretion of the executive branch.

In support of their position that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues rely on §1522(a), entitled “Conditions and consideration,” which employs both the term “shall” and the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this wording is limited by the clause immediately before it: “In providing assistance under this section [referring to the discretionary funding outlined in §1522(b)-(e)]. . .” Accordingly, §1522(a) sets forth certain compulsory “conditions and considerations” that apply if the government elects to allocate funds for refugee initiatives. For instance, the Director “shall... make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [as authorized by §1522(c)’s discretionary provision for “Project grants and contracts for services for refugee”],” with the goal of enabling refugees to achieve economic self-sufficiency as soon as possible. This constitutes a mandatory condition or consideration triggered only upon the government’s decision to fund the relevant activities.

To further support their assertion of obligatory expenditures, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which arguably confer certain duties upon the Director. Nonetheless, neither provision meaningfully detracts from the broader discretionary scheme established in §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obligates the Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children solely when such responsibility is determined to be “necessary.” The same subsection grants the Director authority “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite the use of the term “shall,” this subsection is heavily deferential to executive judgment and does not impose an unequivocal requirement. Additionally, it is unclear from the record whether any unaccompanied refugee children are presently implicated. In a similar vein, subsection (e)(7)(A) provides that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects to provide refugees with cash and medical support “as needed.” The definition and administration of these programs remain subject to executive discretion, falling short of a clear congressional directive.

From my perspective, Section 1522 permits, but does not obligate, the executive branch to establish programs as appropriations become available. It does not compel implementation of such programs. Since there is no statutory requirement for the executive branch to offer these services, it is not within this court’s authority to direct that they be provided. For these reasons, I respectfully dissent in part.