Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order named “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President found that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and ordered that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until further determinations could be made. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (“[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). On January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all financial support for the USRAP program, ostensibly based on a separate executive order called “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). During the review period, this cessation of funding encompassed domestic resettlement services for refugees who had already been admitted into the country.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who were either previously admitted into the United States or who have received approval for resettlement but remain outside U.S. borders, as well as three organizations that maintained cooperative agreements with the State Department for overseas refugee processing and the provision of resettlement services for refugees admitted into the United States. In February 2025, the plaintiffs initiated an action in the Western District of Washington, contending that the suspension of the refugee program pursuant to Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified across various sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and that the withdrawal of funding for USRAP was in violation of several provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as establishing “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court verbally granted a preliminary injunction, enjoining the enforcement and implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government terminated every cooperative agreement related to the provision of reception and placement services to refugees inside the United States, along with all but one agreement regarding USRAP processing support overseas. Subsequently, on February 28, the district court issued a written order delineating the scope of the February 25 preliminary injunction, clarifying that the order also forbids the suspension of USRAP funding. On March 24, the district court granted a second preliminary injunction, requiring the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been terminated following the February 25 ruling. The government filed notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order while its appeal was pending; a motions panel of this court partially granted that request on March 25. Citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the President’s authority to issue Executive Order No. 14163 under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). However, we declined to stay the preliminary injunction “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We subsequently issued two orders to further clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel also requested full briefing and directed the Clerk of Court to calendar the appeal at the earliest opportunity.

After briefing concluded but prior to oral argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court issued a July 14 order establishing a structure for implementing the limited carveout and appointing a magistrate judge to supervise its administration. On July 17, the government submitted an emergency motion seeking enforcement, clarification, or modification of the stay order, which the plaintiffs opposed. We then entered an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order on July 18, 2025, and expedited the oral argument schedule.

DISCUSSION

After considering both the briefs submitted by the parties and the arguments presented orally, the matter is now under advisement for a decision. A substantive opinion addressing the merits will be issued in due course. In the meantime, we hereby dissolve our administrative stay dated July 18, as well as our previous stay from March 25, as modified on April 21 and May 9. We now impose this stay, which shall remain effective until the appeal is conclusively resolved. The district court’s orders from February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, except as specifically indicated below.

The legal principles governing the issuance of a stay are well settled. The court evaluates four considerations: (1) whether the party seeking the stay has demonstrated a strong probability of success on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will suffer irreparable harm if the stay is denied; (3) whether granting the stay will cause substantial harm to other interested parties; and (4) the location of the public interest. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The two principal factors in this assessment are the likelihood of success on the merits and the potential for irreparable injury. Id. There is a strong likelihood that the government will succeed against the plaintiffs’ challenge to the legality of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and we are not authorized to conduct a detailed evaluation of the President’s stated reasons. See Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. Section 1182(f) sets a single requirement: that the President “find[]” that entry of the specified aliens “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.” The President has clearly met that standard in this instance. Id. at 685. The “plain language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not surpass any textual limitation on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, allowing suspension of “the entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). With respect to the remaining considerations, which implicate both domestic and international interests as within the “broad discretion” granted to the President, Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, those, too, weigh in favor of the United States.

The reasons for this determination will be set forth in greater detail in a subsequent opinion. Nonetheless, it appears that the government is unlikely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ APA claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is obligated to offer specified reception and placement services to refugees once they are admitted to the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) directs that the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, a unit within the Department of Health and Human Services, must—“to the extent of available appropriations”—do the following: (i) allocate adequate resources for employment training and placement to facilitate refugees’ attainment of economic self-sufficiency at the earliest possible juncture; (ii) afford refugees the opportunity to obtain sufficient English language training so they may become successfully resettled as promptly as possible; (iii) ensure the provision of cash assistance to refugees in a way that does not deter economic self-sufficiency, as specified in subsection (e)(2); and (iv) guarantee that women have equal access as men to training and instruction. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (detailing federal funding for refugee services). With regard to unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). Further, concerning cash and medical assistance to newly resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) mandates that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” For fiscal year 2025, Congress appropriated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating funds from division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147); this amount was reduced by $800 million pursuant to the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Section 1523 imposes an obligation on the Secretary to submit a comprehensive report on activities undertaken under this subchapter to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees no later than January 31 following the conclusion of each fiscal year.

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—are authorized to be rendered by way of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). The United States has traditionally established cooperative agreements with assorted resettlement organizations to furnish these services. The plaintiff organizations are among those with whom the Department of State maintained cooperative agreements.

As previously noted, in February 2024, the Department of State ended all cooperative agreements for the provision of these services. Recognizing this cessation of support for resettlement services, on March 10, 2025, the government notified the district court that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nevertheless, at oral argument before the panel, the government stated it was unaware if any advancement had been made toward engaging a new agency or agencies to deliver such reception and placement services.

Considering the government’s current lack of clarity as to its capacity to provide the reception and placement services required under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, it is hereby ordered that the government reinstate all cooperative agreements necessary for the provision of such services to refugees who have been admitted to the United States. These services must encompass those routine and standard services previously extended to such refugees pursuant to the former cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is accorded significant discretion and judicial deference in the field of immigration, the district court improperly barred the executive branch from executing the President’s policy decision that restricted the admission of refugees and the provision of services to them. Therefore, I would suspend the district court’s injunctions in full.

While my fellow judges and I concur that the President possesses the power to implement a temporary suspension of refugee admissions and would correspondingly halt the district court’s injunction on this point, we diverge regarding whether the federal government bears a legal obligation to render services to those recently admitted prior to the onset of the suspension. My colleagues read 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a requirement upon the government to supply specified services to refugees. In contrast, I find that this provision is most sensibly interpreted as granting authority, rather than imposing a requirement.

To begin, the heading of Section 1522 reads, “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). By its nature, authorization conveys permission, not compulsion. See AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining authorization as “permission to do something” or an “official document granting such permission”). As a result, §1522 furnishes congressional allowance for action but does not compel it.

Moreover, each of the four discrete statutory sections allocating resources for different refugee services—such as “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—consistently states that the “Director is authorized” to render assistance. U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis supplied). These formulations again underscore the legislative intention to vest discretion over funding decisions with the executive branch.

In contending that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues turn to §1522(a), labeled “Conditions and consideration,” which contains the terms “shall” and “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, these words are limited by the phrase that directly precedes them: “In providing assistance under this section [that is, the discretionary funding provisions found in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” This signifies that §1522(a) sets forth particular mandatory “conditions and considerations” only when the government opts to allocate funds to refugee programs. For instance, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [pursuant to the discretionary funding authorized by § 1522(c) for “Project grants and contracts for services for refugee”] so as to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as swiftly as possible [meaning, this constitutes the mandatory consideration the government must observe if it elects to provide funding].

To strengthen their argument for mandatory expenditures, my colleagues reference subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which they maintain place certain obligations on the Director. However, neither subsection convincingly undermines the prevailing scheme of § 1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) stipulates that the program’s Director assumes legal and financial accountability for unaccompanied refugee children solely if such accountability becomes “necessary.” That provision further empowers the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite use of the word “shall,” the language clearly yields to executive discretion and creates no unequivocal requirement. In addition, the record does not indicate whether unaccompanied refugee children are involved in this case. Similarly, subsection (e)(7)(A) directs that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” programs for cash and medical aid to refugees “as needed.” The scope and contours of those programs fall to the discretion of the executive—not a mandatory directive from Congress.

From my perspective, Section 1522 permits the executive branch to establish programs in its discretion, contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds. It does not compel the existence of such programs. Because the law does not obligate the executive to provide these services, this court lacks authority to order their implementation. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent in part.