Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order named “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President concluded that permitting refugees to enter the United States through the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and consequently instructed that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until further findings are made. Exec. Order No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (authorizing the President, whenever he determines “the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States,” to “by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Then, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all financial support for the USRAP program, ostensibly acting under a separate executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). As a result, and pending further evaluation, the suspension encompassed funding for services related to resettlement within the United States for admitted refugees.

The plaintiffs include individuals who are refugees either previously admitted to the United States or approved for U.S. resettlement but still located outside the country, as well as three organizations holding cooperative agreements with the State Department to conduct overseas refugee processing and deliver resettlement services to admitted refugees. In February 2025, these plaintiffs initiated litigation in the Western District of Washington, asserting that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (with relevant sections codified in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further claimed that defunding the USRAP was inconsistent with several requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (referencing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court orally granted a preliminary injunction, barring enforcement or execution of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government revoked every cooperative agreement for reception and placement of refugees within the United States, along with all but one cooperative agreement supporting USRAP processing overseas. On February 28, the court issued a written order clarifying that its previous injunction of February 25 also covered prohibiting the suspension of USRAP funding. On March 24, a second preliminary injunction was issued by the district court, instructing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been ended following the February 25 order. The government filed notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay pending appeal from the district court’s order issued on February 28, and a motions panel of this court partially granted that request on March 25. Referring to Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the power under which the President promulgated Executive Order No. 14163, namely 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). However, we rejected the motion for a stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Subsequently, we issued two additional rulings that clarified this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel further required comprehensive briefing and instructed the Clerk of Court to place the appeal on the earliest available calendar.

After briefing but before the September 19, 2025, oral argument, on July 14, the district court issued an order to establish a structure for implementing the limited carveout, designating a magistrate judge to oversee it. On July 17, the government filed an emergency motion seeking to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay order, to which the plaintiffs objected. We issued an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order on July 18, 2025. Oral argument was then set on an expedited schedule.

DISCUSSION

After consideration of the parties’ written submissions and the oral presentations, this matter is submitted for decision. A decision addressing the merits will be forthcoming. Meanwhile, we hereby lift our prior administrative stay of July 18, as well as the stay entered on March 25, as modified on April 21 and May 9. In their place, we now enter a stay pending the ultimate disposition of this appeal. Accordingly, the district court’s orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, except as expressly stated below.

The criteria guiding the grant of a stay are settled. Four factors are evaluated: (1) the likelihood that the applicant will succeed on the merits; (2) whether the applicant faces a risk of irreparable harm without a stay; (3) whether issuing a stay would substantially injure other interested parties; and (4) the public interest. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). Of these, the probability of success and the prospect of irreparable injury are “the most critical.” Id. The government is likely to prevail on the plaintiffs’ attack against the legality of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and our review does not extend to “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” See Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. The sole requirement in § 1182(f) is that the President “find[]” the entry of specified aliens “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.” That standard has unquestionably been met here. Id. at 685. “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, regarding suspension of the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States.” 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f). As for the remaining factors, which concern both the internal and external interests of the United States and are subject to the President’s “broad discretion,” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, they also support the United States.

As will be discussed more thoroughly in a forthcoming opinion, the government appears unlikely to succeed with respect to at least one of the plaintiffs’ claims under the APA. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is obligated to provide specified reception and placement services to refugees after they have been admitted to the United States. According to § 1522(a)(1)(A), the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which operates within the Department of Health and Human Services, is directed—subject to available appropriations—to: (i) allocate sufficient resources for employment training and placement so that refugees can achieve economic self-sufficiency as promptly as possible, (ii) offer refugees access to English language instruction so that they can be effectively resettled at the earliest opportunity, (iii) ensure that cash assistance for refugees is provided in a manner that does not deter economic self-sufficiency, consistent with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) guarantee that women are afforded equal opportunities with men to take part in training and instructional programs. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (setting out federal funding for refugee services). In parallel, for unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) specifies: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). Concerning cash and medical assistance for newly arrived refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) mandates the Secretary of Health and Human Services to “develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” For fiscal year 2025, it is noted that Congress appropriated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating funding set forth in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), though this amount was reduced by $800 million by the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Section 1523 imposes a requirement that the Secretary furnish a detailed report on “activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

According to statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—may be delivered through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Traditionally, the United States has entered into cooperative agreements with various resettlement organizations to deliver these services. The organizational plaintiffs are three such organizations that have maintained cooperative agreements with the Department of State.

As previously noted, in February 2024, the State Department ended all cooperative agreements for these services. In recognition of this funding termination, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nevertheless, at oral argument, the government reported to the panel that it did not know whether there had been any development in the process of procuring a new agency or agencies to furnish reception and placement services.

Given the government’s uncertainty as to its capacity to offer the reception and placement services mandated by 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to reinstate the necessary cooperative agreements to ensure that reception and placement services under § 1522 are provided to refugees admitted into the United States. These services must include those routinely and typically provided to such refugees under prior cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President possesses considerable discretion and courts generally defer to executive authority in immigration policy, the district court wrongly prohibited the executive branch from carrying out the President's chosen policy to restrict refugee admissions and associated services. Therefore, I would grant a full stay of the district court’s injunctions.

My fellow judges concur that the President may lawfully halt refugee admissions and, accordingly, would stay that part of the injunction. However, our opinions diverge regarding whether the federal government is legally obligated to provide services for individuals who gained entry just prior to the suspension’s commencement. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a service mandate upon the government for refugees. In my view, this section is better read as granting authority—not creating an obligation.

To begin, the heading of Section 1522 is “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). The term “authorization” indicates a permissive rather than compulsory approach. See AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (“permission to do something” or the “official document granting such permission”). By its terms, § 1522 empowers, but does not require, executive action.

Moreover, each of the four subsections providing appropriations for various refugee programs—such as “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—reiterate that the “Director is authorized” to deliver aid. U.S.C. § 1522(b)-(e) (emphasis in original). This recurring phrase again signals that the executive retains discretion in administering these funds.

In their contention that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues rely on §1522(a)—entitled “Conditions and consideration”—which includes the terms “shall” and “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this directive is limited by the phrase that immediately precedes it: “In providing assistance under this section [i.e., the discretionary funding provisions under §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” In essence, §1522(a) establishes mandatory “conditions and considerations” only if the government elects to allocate funding to refugee programs. For instance, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [within the discretion afforded under § 1522(c) for “Project grants and contracts for services for refugees”] to facilitate refugees’ achievement of economic self-sufficiency at the earliest possible stage [meaning this represents a mandatory factor that must be considered if funding is chosen].

To further support their mandatory spending argument, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which might be read as imposing certain duties on the Director. Yet, neither provision sufficiently undermines the broad structure of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obliges the Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children solely if such action is deemed “necessary.” It also permits the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” While the subsection employs “shall,” it is characterized by significant deference to the executive and lacks an unequivocal directive. Furthermore, the record does not establish the presence of any unaccompanied refugee children pertinent to this matter. In the same vein, subsection (e)(7)(A) provides that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects delivering cash and medical assistance to refugees “as needed.” The extent and specific parameters of these programs are left to the executive’s judgment—falling short of a legislative mandate.

From my perspective, Section 1522 merely grants the executive the authority to establish programs at its discretion when appropriations are available; it does not obligate the initiation or ongoing operation of such programs. Since the statute does not require the executive to supply these services, it is not within our judicial purview to compel their provision. Accordingly, I must respectfully dissent in part.