Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

We heard oral argument in this case on an expedited basis on September 3, 2025. An opinion will issue in due course. In the interim, this Order shall constitute a stay pending appeal and further order of this court. We hereby vacate our administrative stay issued July 18, 2025. We vacate our prior stay issued March 25, 2025, as amended on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The district court’s February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45) and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79) preliminary injunctions are stayed in their entirety except as specified in this Order. The government’s emergency motion of July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108) is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order entitled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President determined that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and directed that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” pending further findings. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (providing in relevant part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). On January 24, 2025, the Department of State suspended all funding of the USRAP program, purportedly pursuant to a different executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). Pending further review, this suspension included funding for domestic resettlement services for refugees admitted to the United States.

The plaintiffs include refugees who were either previously granted admission to the United States or approved for resettlement but remain abroad, along with three organizations that held cooperative agreements with the State Department to manage overseas processing for refugee applicants and to deliver resettlement services to refugees who had entered the United States. In February 2025, they brought an action in the Western District of Washington, contending that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified throughout the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further arguing that the withdrawal of USRAP funding breached provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (calling the Refugee Act “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court verbally granted a preliminary injunction barring enforcement and implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government cancelled all cooperative agreements related to the provision of reception and placement services to refugees in the United States, as well as all but one agreement for USRAP processing support overseas. On February 28, the district court entered a written order clarifying the February 25 preliminary injunction, stating expressly that it also blocks the suspension of USRAP funding. On March 24, the district court granted a second preliminary injunction mandating that the State Department restore all cooperative agreements terminated subsequent to the February 25 ruling. The government lodged notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay pending appeal of the district court’s February 28 order, which a motions panel of this court partially granted on March 25. Referring to Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), the provision under which the President issued Executive Order No. 14163, “exudes deference” to the President and grants him “ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nonetheless, we denied the stay motion “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Two subsequent orders were issued to clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel also directed that the matter be fully briefed and instructed the Clerk of Court to calendar the appeal at the earliest opportunity.

After briefing was complete, but prior to the argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court entered an order on July 14 establishing a process for implementing the limited carveout and appointing a magistrate judge to administer this process. Subsequently, on July 17, the government filed an emergency motion seeking to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay order, which plaintiffs contested. On July 18, 2025, we imposed an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 order regarding enforcement. Oral argument was then set on an expedited schedule.

DISCUSSION

Based on the parties’ written submissions and oral presentations, the matter is now under consideration. A decision on the merits will be issued in due course. Meanwhile, we hereby lift the administrative stay entered on July 18 and the stay dated March 25, as modified on April 21 and May 9. We now enter this stay, which shall remain in effect until the resolution of this appeal. The district court’s orders from February 28 and March 24, 2025 are hereby stayed in full, with exceptions only as specified below.

The criteria for granting a stay are firmly established. Our analysis considers four factors: (1) whether the applicant seeking the stay has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of success on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will suffer irreparable harm if a stay is not granted; (3) whether issuing the stay will cause significant harm to other parties involved; and (4) the position of the public interest. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The first two criteria—likelihood of success on the merits and potential for irreparable harm—are considered to be “the most critical.” Id. The government is likely to succeed in defending the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s temporary halt on refugee admissions, and the Court is not authorized to perform “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. “The sole prerequisite set forth in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685. The statute's language is “clear,” and the Executive Order “does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to suspend the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The other factors, which pertain to domestic and international concerns as determined by the “broad discretion” granted to the President, see Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also weigh in favor of the United States.

As will be explained more thoroughly in the forthcoming opinion, the government does not appear likely to succeed with respect to at least one of the plaintiffs’ claims arising under the APA. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, following their admission to the United States, the government is obligated to furnish specific reception and placement services for refugees. Under § 1522(a)(1)(A), the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—part of the Department of Health and Human Services—is required, “to the extent of available appropriations,” to (i) allocate adequate resources for employment training and placement aimed at promoting economic self-sufficiency among refugees as promptly as possible, (ii) ensure that refugees have the opportunity to receive sufficient English language instruction to facilitate their resettlement expeditiously, (iii) guarantee that cash assistance is distributed in a manner that does not undermine refugees’ economic independence, in line with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) ensure equal access for women and men to participate in available training and instruction. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (outlining federal funding for refugee services). With regard to unaccompanied refugee minors, § 1522(d)(2)(B) specifies: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). Regarding cash and medical aid for recently resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) instructs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to “develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” For the fiscal year 2025, Congress allocated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating funding as set forth in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), though this amount was reduced by $800 million by the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Additionally, § 1523 mandates that the Secretary submit a detailed report on activities conducted under this subchapter to the Judiciary Committees of the House of Representatives and the Senate by January 31 after each fiscal year ends.

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly called “reception and placement” services—may be furnished through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Historically, the United States has utilized cooperative agreements with a range of resettlement organizations to deliver these services. The organizational plaintiffs are three such entities with which the Department of State maintained cooperative agreements.

As previously noted, the State Department ended all cooperative agreements related to the provision of these services in February 2024. Recognizing the cessation of resettlement services funding, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nonetheless, during oral argument before the panel, the government stated it did not know whether any steps had been taken to engage a new agency or agencies to supply such reception and placement services.

Given the government’s expressed uncertainty about its current capacity to provide the reception and placement services required by 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is accordingly ordered to reinstate such cooperative agreements as necessary to ensure the delivery of reception and placement services to refugees admitted to the United States as outlined in § 1522. These services must encompass the ordinary and customary services previously extended to such refugees under earlier cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is granted considerable latitude and receives significant deference concerning immigration issues, the district court erred by restraining the executive branch from carrying out the President's policy choices to restrict refugee admissions and limit the provision of related services. For this reason, I would grant a stay of the district court's injunctions in full.

While my colleagues and I concur that the President possesses the authority to suspend the admission of refugees and would accordingly stay the district court’s order enjoining that action, we diverge on whether the federal government is legally obligated to continue supplying services to individuals who entered before the moratorium took effect. My colleagues read 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a duty on the government to furnish certain services to refugees. In my view, the statute is most straightforwardly interpreted as a grant of permission, not a directive.

To begin, the heading of § 1522 is “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). The term "authorization" connotes permission, rather than obligation. According to Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024), AUTHORIZATION means “permission to do something” or an “official document granting such permission.” Thus, by enacting § 1522, Congress permits the specified actions but does not impose a requirement.

Additionally, the four statutory subsections that allocate funds for particular refugee services—such as “Program of initial resettlement,” “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—each provide that the “Director is authorized” to render such assistance. See U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis in original). These provisions again indicate congressional intent to provide discretion to the executive in allocating such funds.

In asserting that Section 1522 creates a requirement for mandatory funding, my colleagues reference §1522(a), entitled “Conditions and consideration,” which incorporates both the term “shall” and the expression “to the extent of available appropriations.” Nevertheless, this language is limited by the immediately preceding clause: “In providing assistance under this section [that is, the discretionary funding mechanisms set forth in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” Thus, §1522(a) establishes obligatory “conditions and considerations” only when the government opts to allocate funds for refugee assistance. For instance, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [referring to the discretionary funding for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’ as delineated in §1522(c)] in order to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible.” In this sense, the mandate or consideration applies only if the government elects to fund such initiatives.

To further their argument for compelled spending, my colleagues highlight subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which may be read to set forth certain duties for the Director. However, neither provision convincingly overrides the general structure of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obligates the program Director to accept legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children solely if such responsibility is “necessary.” This subsection further permits the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” While it employs the word “shall,” the provision clearly allows broad deference to executive judgment and refrains from establishing an unequivocal directive. Furthermore, the record does not reveal whether any unaccompanied refugee children are presently affected. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) requires that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” cash and medical support projects for refugees only “as needed.” The scope and structure of such programs rest within the executive’s judgment, indicating that Congress set no rigid requirement.

From my perspective, Section 1522 confers authority upon the executive branch to establish programs at its discretion, conditional upon the availability of appropriations. It does not impose an obligation to operate these programs. Since the statute does not command the executive branch to deliver these services, it is beyond our judicial authority to compel such actions. I therefore respectfully dissent in part.