Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

We heard oral argument in this case on an expedited basis on September 3, 2025. An opinion will issue in due course. In the interim, this Order shall constitute a stay pending appeal and further order of this court. We hereby vacate our administrative stay issued July 18, 2025. We vacate our prior stay issued March 25, 2025, as amended on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The district court’s February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45) and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79) preliminary injunctions are stayed in their entirety except as specified in this Order. The government’s emergency motion of July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108) is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order entitled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President determined that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and directed that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” pending further findings. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (providing in relevant part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). On January 24, 2025, the Department of State suspended all funding of the USRAP program, purportedly pursuant to a different executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). Pending further review, this suspension included funding for domestic resettlement services for refugees admitted to the United States.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who were either previously granted entry into the United States or had been approved for resettlement in the United States but remain abroad, along with three organizations holding cooperative agreements with the State Department to conduct overseas refugee processing and to provide resettlement services within the United States. In February 2025, these plaintiffs initiated litigation in the Western District of Washington, contending that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified in various sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and that the cessation of funding for the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) violated certain sections of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. Cf. Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court delivered an oral preliminary injunction barring enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The next day, February 26, the government rescinded all cooperative agreements for providing refugee reception and placement services in the United States, and terminated all but one of the agreements for USRAP processing support abroad. On February 28, the district court entered a written order clarifying and confirming that the preliminary injunction extended to prohibit the suspension of USRAP funding as well. On March 24, a second preliminary injunction was issued by the district court, directing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that were terminated following the February 25 order. The government filed notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court's February 28 order while its appeal was pending. On March 25, a motions panel of this court partially granted that request. Referring to Trump v. Hawaii, we stated that the President’s authority under Executive Order No. 14163, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). However, we denied the government’s stay request “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Subsequently, we issued two further orders that clarified this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel also ordered that the case proceed with full briefing and directed the Clerk of Court to set the appeal for the next available oral argument calendar.

After the parties had filed their briefs but prior to the oral argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court entered an order on July 14 establishing procedures to enforce the limited carveout and appointing a magistrate judge to supervise the process. On July 17, the government responded with an emergency motion seeking to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay order, which plaintiffs opposed. The next day, July 18, 2025, we imposed an administrative stay on the district court’s July 14 enforcement order. We then scheduled oral argument on an accelerated timeline.

DISCUSSION

After considering the parties’ briefing and oral argument, the case is now under submission for a decision. An opinion on the merits will be forthcoming. Meanwhile, we hereby lift our administrative stay issued on July 18 as well as the stay entered on March 25, as modified on April 21 and May 9. In their place, we grant this stay, which shall remain in effect until this appeal is finally resolved. Accordingly, the district court's orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, except as otherwise specified below.

The criteria governing the issuance of a stay are well recognized. The court evaluates four considerations: (1) Whether the party seeking a stay has demonstrated a strong likelihood of prevailing on the merits; (2) whether that party will suffer irreparable harm without a stay; (3) whether granting the stay will cause substantial injury to other interested parties; and (4) the public interest. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). Of these, the first two—the probability of success on the merits and irreparable harm—are the most important. Id. The government is likely to succeed against plaintiffs' challenge to the legality of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and our review does not permit “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. Section 1182(f) requires only that the President “find[]” that the entry of specified aliens would harm the interests of the United States, and here the President has certainly satisfied that condition. Id. at 685. “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, specifically to suspend “the entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States.” 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f). Consideration of the other factors—including domestic and foreign policy concerns of the United States, matters subject to the “broad discretion” vested in the President, Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84—also weighs in favor of the United States.

The Court will set forth its reasoning in detail in a forthcoming opinion, but, at present, finds that the government appears unlikely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ Administrative Procedure Act claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, after refugees are admitted to the United States, the government is obligated to provide them with specified reception and placement services. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) obligates the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—part of the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations”—to: (i) ensure sufficient resources are allocated for employment training and job placement so that refugees may attain economic self-sufficiency as expeditiously as possible; (ii) furnish refugees with opportunities for adequate English language instruction for prompt and effective resettlement; (iii) guarantee that the distribution of cash assistance to refugees is structured so as not to discourage efforts at economic self-sufficiency, as set forth in subsection (e)(2); and (iv) ensure equal opportunities for women and men to engage in training and instruction. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (defining the scope of federal funding available for refugee programs). For unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis added). Regarding cash and medical assistance for recently resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) requires that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” For fiscal year 2025, Congress allotted $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance pursuant to Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (which adopts funds appropriated in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147); this amount was subsequently decreased by $800 million through the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Furthermore, § 1523 imposes a duty of accountability on the Secretary, mandating submission of a comprehensive report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

According to statute, these resettlement services, commonly known as “reception and placement” services, may be provided by means of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Historically, the United States has utilized cooperative agreements with a variety of resettlement organizations to deliver these services. The organizational plaintiffs are among the entities with which the Department of State has held such cooperative agreements.

As previously noted, the State Department in February 2024 terminated all such cooperative agreements. Upon acknowledging the cessation of funding for resettlement services, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nevertheless, at oral argument before this panel, the government was unable to confirm whether any steps had actually been taken toward procuring a new agency or agencies to provide these services.

Given the government’s lack of clarity regarding its capacity to fulfill the statutory obligation under 8 U.S.C. § 1522 to provide reception and placement services, the government is therefore ordered to reinstate those cooperative agreements necessary to carry out the reception and placement services specified in § 1522 for refugees admitted to the United States. These services must include the standard and customary services previously offered to such refugees pursuant to former cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is accorded considerable latitude and judicial deference regarding immigration policy, the district court erroneously prohibited the executive branch from executing the President’s directive to restrict the admission of refugees and the provision of services to them. Accordingly, I would grant a full stay of the district court’s injunctions.

While my fellow judges and I concur that the President is empowered to suspend refugee admissions—and, on that basis, would stay the district court’s injunction related to that issue—we diverge regarding whether the federal government is legally obliged to continue furnishing services to individuals admitted prior to the suspension’s implementation. My colleagues interpret 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a duty upon the government to supply particular services to refugees. In my view, however, the statute is best understood as granting authority rather than imposing a requirement.

Consider the statutory context: Section 1522 bears the heading “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis added). The use of “Authorization” signals discretion rather than compulsion. AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining “authorization” as “permission to do something” or an “official document granting such permission”). Thus, in §1522, Congress confers authority for action rather than mandates it.

Moreover, each of the four statutory subsections allocating funds for various refugee services—such as the “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—uniformly uses language that the “Director is authorized” to provide these forms of assistance. U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). These provisions likewise indicate that funding decisions are within the executive branch’s discretion.

In contending that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues focus on §1522(a), which bears the heading “Conditions and consideration” and includes both the directive term “shall” and the limitation “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this is modified by the preceding phrase: “In providing assistance under this section [that is, the discretionary funding set out in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” Put differently, §1522(a) establishes certain required “conditions and considerations,” but only if the government opts to fund refugee initiatives. For instance, the Director “shall...make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [relating to §1522(c)’s discretionary provision for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] to facilitate economic self-sufficiency for refugees as rapidly as feasible [that is, this constitutes the compulsory condition or factor for consideration, but only if the government elects to allocate funds].”

To reinforce their assertion of mandatory expenditures, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which might be read as placing duties upon the Director. Nevertheless, neither provision effectively rebuts the underlying structure of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obligates the program Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee minors solely if it is deemed “necessary.” It further grants the Director the authority “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Even though “shall” appears in the text, the subsection largely entrusts authority to the executive branch and does not set forth any unequivocal command. It is additionally uncertain from the record whether any unaccompanied refugee children are implicated in this instance. In a similar vein, subsection (e)(7)(A) indicates that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” cash and medical assistance projects for refugees “as needed.” The extent and nature of these initiatives are controlled by executive judgment—falling far short of a rigid legislative requirement.

In my estimation, Section 1522 merely permits the executive branch to design programs at its discretion so long as funds are appropriated. It does not compel the establishment or continuation of such programs. Because the statute does not obligate the executive to provide these services, our court lacks the authority to direct their provision. For these reasons, I respectfully dissent in part.