Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

We heard oral argument in this case on an expedited basis on September 3, 2025. An opinion will issue in due course. In the interim, this Order shall constitute a stay pending appeal and further order of this court. We hereby vacate our administrative stay issued July 18, 2025. We vacate our prior stay issued March 25, 2025, as amended on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The district court’s February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45) and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79) preliminary injunctions are stayed in their entirety except as specified in this Order. The government’s emergency motion of July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108) is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order entitled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President determined that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and directed that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” pending further findings. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (providing in relevant part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). On January 24, 2025, the Department of State suspended all funding of the USRAP program, purportedly pursuant to a different executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). Pending further review, this suspension included funding for domestic resettlement services for refugees admitted to the United States.

The plaintiffs in this case consist of refugees who were either formerly admitted to the United States or have received approval for resettlement but remain outside the country, along with three organizations that held cooperative agreements with the State Department to manage overseas processing for individuals applying for refugee status and to deliver resettlement services to admitted refugees. In February 2025, the plaintiffs initiated an action in the Western District of Washington, asserting that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (as codified in multiple sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further claimed that the cessation of funding for USRAP violated several provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (referring to the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court orally granted a preliminary injunction that barred the enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. Following this, on February 26, the government ended all cooperative agreements for providing reception and placement services to refugees within the United States, as well as all except one agreement for offering USRAP processing support overseas. On February 28, the district court issued a written order clarifying the extent of the February 25 preliminary injunction, making clear that it also prevented the suspension of USRAP funding. Later, on March 24, the court issued a second preliminary injunction compelling the State Department to restore any cooperative agreements that had been ended after the February 25 order. The government submitted notices of appeal on both February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order while its appeal was pending, and a motions panel of this court partially granted that request on March 25. In doing so, and citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the statutory authority invoked by the President in issuing Executive Order No. 14163, namely 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “’exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nevertheless, we denied the stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Subsequently, we entered two more orders to clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel instructed the parties to submit full briefing and directed the Clerk to add the appeal to the next available calendar.

After the briefs were filed, but before the oral argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court entered an order on July 14 creating a framework for administering the limited carveout and naming a magistrate judge to oversee its execution. Three days later, on July 17, the government submitted an emergency motion seeking to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay, which the plaintiffs opposed. On July 18, 2025, we issued an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order and scheduled oral argument on an expedited schedule.

DISCUSSION

After reviewing the briefs submitted by the parties and hearing oral argument, we deem the matter submitted for adjudication. A merits opinion will be forthcoming. In the meantime, we hereby vacate both our administrative stay entered on July 18 and our prior stay issued on March 25, as subsequently modified on April 21 and May 9. We now enter this stay pending the ultimate disposition of this appeal. The district court's orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025, are stayed in full, except where specifically stated otherwise.

The criteria for granting a stay are firmly established. The court evaluates four elements: (1) whether the party requesting the stay has demonstrated a strong likelihood of success on the merits; (2) whether, absent a stay, the applicant would suffer irreparable harm; (3) whether the issuance of a stay would significantly injure other interested parties; and (4) the public interest considerations. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The most significant of these are the first two: likelihood of success and potential for irreparable harm. Id. The government is apt to succeed on the plaintiffs’ claim challenging the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s refugee admissions suspension, and our review is not to undertake “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. “The sole prerequisite set forth in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685. Further, “[t]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to bar “the entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The other factors—implicating both national and international interests as recognized by the “broad discretion” afforded the President, Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84—also support the position of the United States.

However, as will be detailed further in an upcoming opinion, the government does not appear likely to succeed on at least one of plaintiffs’ claims under the APA. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government has a duty to provide specified reception and placement services to refugees following their entry into the United States. According to § 1522(a)(1)(A), the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—located within the Department of Health and Human Services—is obligated, “to the extent of available appropriations,” to: (i) allocate adequate resources for employment training and job placement so that refugees may achieve economic independence as quickly as possible; (ii) afford refugees the chance to obtain adequate English language instruction enabling them to resettle effectively and promptly; (iii) ensure that refugees have access to cash assistance structured to avoid disincentivizing economic self-sufficiency, as stated in subsection (e)(2); and (iv) guarantee that women have opportunities equal to those of men to participate in training and instructional programs. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (outlining federal financing for refugee services). For unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) specifies: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). As for cash and medical assistance to newly arrived refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) states that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” It is also noteworthy that for Fiscal Year 2025, Congress allocated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance. See Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating funds from division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147). This amount was subsequently reduced by $800 million in the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Section 1523 also mandates that the Secretary provide a detailed report concerning activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of both the House of Representatives and the Senate by January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement activities—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—are authorized to be delivered through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements established with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Traditionally, the United States has relied upon cooperative agreements with a range of resettlement organizations to administer these services. The organizational plaintiffs in this case consist of three entities that have previously operated under cooperative agreements with the Department of State.

As previously noted, in February 2024, the State Department elected to end all such cooperative agreements related to the provision of these services. Recognizing the termination of funding for resettlement assistance, the government notified the district court on March 10, 2025, of its ongoing preparations to issue a request for proposals seeking a new resettlement agency capable of providing reception and placement services. Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nonetheless, despite this assertion, the government represented to the panel during oral argument that it did not know whether any advancements had occurred regarding the engagement of a new agency or agencies to offer reception and placement services.

Given the government’s expressed uncertainty about its capacity to ensure the delivery of the reception and placement services mandated by 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore the necessary cooperative agreements required to provide the reception and placement services specified in § 1522 to refugees who have been admitted to the United States. These services must encompass those ordinarily and customarily rendered to such refugees under the previous cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is granted broad authority and judicial deference in the area of immigration, the district court erred in issuing an injunction that stopped the executive branch from enforcing the President’s chosen policy restricting the admission of refugees and associated services. Consequently, I would grant a stay of the district court’s injunctions in full.

My fellow panelists and I agree that the President holds the power to temporarily halt refugee admissions, leading us to conclude that the district court’s injunction regarding this matter should be stayed. However, we differ in our interpretation concerning whether the federal government bears a legal obligation to provide benefits to refugees admitted prior to the imposition of the moratorium. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a requirement for the government to furnish specified services to refugees. From my perspective, however, the statute reads most convincingly as granting the government authority rather than imposing a compulsory duty.

To begin: The title of Section 1522 reads “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). The use of the word “authorization” suggests permission rather than compulsion. As defined by AUTHORIZATION, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024), it is “permission to do something” or “the official document granting such permission.” Thus, by enacting § 1522, Congress has permitted—not mandated—action by the government.

Moreover, the four precise statutory subsections that relate to the appropriation of funds for assorted refugee support services—for instance, “Program of initial resettlement,” “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—all use the phrase that the “Director is authorized” to extend aid. U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis in original). This repeated statutory language signifies that the executive branch maintains discretion regarding the allocation of such resources.

In support of their position that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues focus on §1522(a), labeled “Conditions and consideration,” which incorporates the word “shall” and the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, that wording is expressly limited by the phrase that comes directly before it: “In providing assistance under this section [referring to the discretionary funding authorizations in §1522(b)-(e)]…” Put differently, §1522(a) establishes certain obligatory “conditions and considerations” that must be observed only if the government opts to fund refugee programs. For instance, the Director “shall… make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [using the discretionary funds authorized in §1522(c) for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] to help refugees achieve economic self-sufficiency as soon as possible [indicating this is a required condition or consideration, but only if the program is actually funded].”

To further support their argument for required spending, my colleagues refer to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which could be read as imposing some duties on the Director. Yet neither provision convincingly overcomes the fundamental nature of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obligates the program’s Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children only when such responsibility is “necessary.” The subsection further empowers the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Though the language includes “shall,” it overwhelmingly grants discretion to the executive branch and creates no categorical requirement. Moreover, there is no indication from the record that any unaccompanied refugee children are relevant in this case. In the same vein, subsection (e)(7)(A) directs that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects for refugee cash and medical aid “as needed.” The contours of those programs are left to executive judgment, falling short of a clear congressional directive.

In my assessment, Section 1522 empowers the executive branch to establish programs at its own discretion, contingent on appropriated funding. It does not obligate the operation of these programs. Since the law stops short of requiring the executive branch to provide such services, it is beyond the purview of our court to require their implementation. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent in part.