Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

We heard oral argument in this case on an expedited basis on September 3, 2025. An opinion will issue in due course. In the interim, this Order shall constitute a stay pending appeal and further order of this court. We hereby vacate our administrative stay issued July 18, 2025. We vacate our prior stay issued March 25, 2025, as amended on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The district court’s February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45) and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79) preliminary injunctions are stayed in their entirety except as specified in this Order. The government’s emergency motion of July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108) is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order entitled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President determined that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and directed that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” pending further findings. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (providing in relevant part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). On January 24, 2025, the Department of State suspended all funding of the USRAP program, purportedly pursuant to a different executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). Pending further review, this suspension included funding for domestic resettlement services for refugees admitted to the United States.

The plaintiffs in this case consist of refugees who had either previously been admitted to the United States or received approval for resettlement but remained outside the country, as well as three organizations holding cooperative agreements with the State Department for overseas refugee processing and domestic resettlement services. In February 2025, the plaintiffs initiated litigation in the Western District of Washington, contending that Executive Order 14163’s suspension of the refugee program contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (as codified in various portions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further asserting that the termination of funding for USRAP ran afoul of numerous provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court delivered an oral ruling issuing a preliminary injunction that barred the enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government proceeded to end all cooperative agreements related to the provision of reception and placement services for refugees within the United States, and terminated all but one agreement concerning overseas support for USRAP processing. On February 28, the district court issued a written order clarifying and defining the February 25 preliminary injunction’s scope, making clear that it also enjoined the suspension of funding for USRAP. Subsequently, on March 24, the district court granted a second preliminary injunction, directing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements terminated after February 25. The government filed its notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order pending appeal, and a motions panel of this court partially granted that request on March 25. Citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), the statutory authority underlying the President’s issuance of Executive Order No. 14163, “exudes deference” to the President and “vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nevertheless, the motion for a stay was denied “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. We subsequently issued two further orders clarifying the scope of this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The panel ordered full briefing of the appeal and instructed the Clerk of Court to calendar it at the earliest opportunity.

After briefing was complete but prior to the argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court entered an order on July 14 to create a structure for implementing the limited carveout, including appointing a magistrate judge to oversee it. In response, the government submitted an emergency motion on July 17 to enforce, clarify, or modify the stay order, which the plaintiffs opposed. On July 18, 2025, we entered an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order and set oral argument to proceed on an expedited schedule.

DISCUSSION

After considering both the parties’ briefs and the oral argument, we deem the case submitted for resolution. Our opinion addressing the merits will follow in due course. Meanwhile, we hereby rescind our administrative stay issued on July 18, as well as the stay entered on March 25 and amended on April 21 and May 9. A new stay is ordered, effective until the appeal is finally determined. Accordingly, the district court’s orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025 are stayed in full, except as specifically provided below.

The governing principles for granting a stay are settled. The court evaluates four factors: (1) whether the party seeking a stay has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of succeeding on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will suffer irreparable harm if a stay is denied; (3) whether granting a stay will significantly harm other parties in the matter; and (4) where the balance of public interest lies. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The first two considerations—likelihood of success and risk of irreparable injury—are paramount. Id. The government is likely to succeed regarding the plaintiffs’ challenge to Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and judicial review of the President’s reasoning is limited; as stated in Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686, “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications” is impermissible. Section 1182(f) requires only that the President “find[]” that entry of covered aliens “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and that standard has unquestionably been satisfied here. Id. at 685. The statute’s language is unambiguous, and the Executive Order does not contravene any textual constraint on presidential authority to suspend the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States.” Id. at 688; see also 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f). The remaining criteria, which consider the United States’ domestic and international interests as determined in the exercise of the President’s “broad discretion,” also support the position of the United States. Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84.

As will be discussed at greater length in a forthcoming opinion, the government does not appear likely to succeed on at least one of plaintiffs’ claims under the APA. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government has a statutory obligation to furnish specified reception and placement services to refugees following their entry into the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) mandates that the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—housed within the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations,” must: (i) allocate adequate resources for employment training and placement to promote rapid economic self-sufficiency for refugees, (ii) afford refugees access to sufficient English language education to facilitate expeditious resettlement, (iii) ensure that cash assistance is disbursed in a manner that does not impede refugees’ attainment of economic independence, consistent with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) guarantee that women receive equal opportunities alongside men in all training and educational programs. Refer also to 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq., which set forth federal financial support for refugee programs. In a parallel provision regarding unaccompanied refugee minors, § 1522(d)(2)(B) directs: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). For cash and medical support for refugees recently resettled, § 1522(e)(7)(A) directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to “develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” Notably, for FY 2025, Congress appropriated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance under Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (implementing the appropriations in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147); however, the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6), reduced this amount by $800 million. In accordance with § 1523, the Secretary is held to an accountability requirement and must submit a comprehensive report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as "reception and placement" services—may be rendered via contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with "public or private nonprofit agencies." U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Historically, the United States has formed cooperative agreements with a number of resettlement organizations to deliver these services. The organizational plaintiffs in this case are three such entities with whom the Department of State has maintained cooperative agreements.

As previously noted, the State Department, in February 2024, ended all existing cooperative agreements for the provision of these services. In acknowledgment of this cessation of funding for resettlement services, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was "actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services." Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nevertheless, at oral argument, the government stated to the panel that it lacked knowledge as to whether any progress had been achieved in procuring a new agency or agencies to offer such reception and placement services.

Given the government's uncertainty concerning its capacity to fulfill the statutory requirement of providing reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore the cooperative agreements necessary to deliver the reception and placement services outlined in § 1522 to admitted refugees. These services must encompass the standard and customary assistance that has previously been provided to such refugees under the former cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is afforded significant discretion and deference in immigration affairs, the district court mistakenly barred the executive branch from carrying out the President’s policy choice to restrict the admission of refugees and the provision of services to them. Accordingly, I would grant a complete stay of the district court’s injunctions.

My fellow panel members and I concur that the President possesses the authority to enforce a suspension of refugee admissions and, for that reason, would stay the district court’s injunction with respect to that matter. However, we disagree as to whether the federal government is legally obligated to provide services to individuals recently admitted prior to the implementation of the suspension. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as obligating the government to supply particular services to refugees. In my view, the language of this provision is more appropriately read as granting authorization, not as imposing a mandate.

Consider first the statutory context: Section 1522 is titled, “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis added). The term “authorization” denotes a permissive power rather than a compulsory directive. See AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining “authorization” as “permission to do something” or “the official document granting such permission”). Therefore, Congress has permitted action under § 1522, not commanded it.

In addition, each of the four designated statutory subsections that allocate funds for various refugee services—such as “Program of initial resettlement,” “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—specify that the “Director is authorized” to dispense such assistance. 8 U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). These statutory phrases further indicate that the executive has discretion in the allocation of such funding.

In asserting that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues rely on §1522(a), titled “Conditions and consideration,” highlighting its use of “shall” along with “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this terminology is limited by the immediately preceding clause: “In providing assistance under this section [that is, the discretionary funding outlined in §1522(b)-(e)]...” Therefore, §1522(a) sets forth compulsory “conditions and considerations” only if the government elects to provide funding for refugee programs. For instance, the Director is required to “make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [pursuant to the discretionary grants in §1522(c) for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as promptly as possible”; that is, this establishes a mandatory condition only if the government opts to fund these initiatives.

To further their argument for compelled spending, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which can be read to place certain duties on the Director. Nonetheless, neither effectively rebuts the essential nature of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) directs the Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee minors only when such responsibility is found “necessary.” This part also empowers the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Although the subsection uses the word “shall,” its tone defers significantly to executive judgment, lacking a strict directive. The record is also ambiguous as to whether any unaccompanied refugee minors are implicated in the present case. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) directs that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects providing refugees with cash and medical support, but only “as needed.” The boundaries and extent of these programs remain within executive discretion, far from being a concrete mandate by Congress.

In my assessment, Section 1522 permits the executive branch to establish programs at its discretion, subject to available appropriations. It does not impose a duty for such programs to be maintained. Given that the law does not oblige the executive branch to deliver these services, the court lacks authority to order their provision. Accordingly, I dissent in part.