Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed Executive Order No. 14163, titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program,” published at 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President determined that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and consequently ordered the suspension of “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP” until additional determinations could be made. Exec. Order. No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (“[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Subsequently, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all funding associated with the USRAP program, asserting authority under a separate directive, Executive Order No. 14169, “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid,” published at 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). This funding freeze covered, pending additional evaluation, resources allocated for domestic resettlement services provided to refugees granted entry into the United States.

The plaintiffs comprise refugees who had either previously been admitted to the United States or who have obtained approval for resettlement in the United States but remain abroad, as well as three organizations that maintained cooperative agreements with the State Department to carry out overseas processing for individuals seeking refugee status and to provide resettlement assistance to refugees admitted into the United States. In February 2025, the plaintiffs commenced legal action in the Western District of Washington, asserting that Executive Order 14163’s suspension of the refugee program contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified across multiple sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and contending that withdrawing funding from USRAP violated various parts of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court orally granted a preliminary injunction that barred any enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. Following that, on February 26, the government ended every cooperative agreement for providing reception and placement services to refugees domestically and terminated all but one of the cooperative agreements supporting USRAP processing overseas. The district court subsequently issued a written order on February 28 delineating the reach of the February 25 preliminary injunction, clarifying that it also enjoined the suspension of USRAP funding. On March 24, the district court issued a second preliminary injunction compelling the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been terminated subsequent to the February 25 decision. The government submitted notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order while its appeal was pending, and on March 25, a motions panel of this court partially granted that request. In referencing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the statutory authority, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), under which the President issued Executive Order No. 14163, “exudes deference” to the President and “vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nevertheless, the stay was denied “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Two further orders were issued to clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel called for comprehensive briefing and directed the Clerk of Court to set the appeal for the next available oral argument calendar.

After the briefing concluded but prior to the oral argument scheduled for September 19, 2025, the district court on July 14 established a framework to implement the limited carveout and assigned a magistrate judge to oversee this structure. The government responded on July 17 by filing an emergency motion requesting enforcement, clarification, or modification of the stay order, which plaintiffs opposed. On July 18, 2025, we imposed an administrative stay on the district court’s July 14 enforcement order, and we arranged for oral argument on an expedited schedule.

DISCUSSION

After considering the parties' briefs and hearing oral argument, the matter is now submitted for determination. A decision addressing the merits will be forthcoming. Pending that decision, we hereby dissolve our prior administrative stay dated July 18, along with our March 25 stay, as modified on April 21 and May 9. We now grant a stay pending the conclusion of this appeal. The entirety of the district court's orders issued on February 28 and March 24, 2025, is stayed, with the exception of what is specified below.

The criteria governing issuance of a stay are firmly established. There are four considerations: (1) whether the applicant for the stay has made a strong case for likely success on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will face irreparable harm if a stay is not granted; (3) whether issuing the stay would cause substantial injury to the other parties; and (4) where the public interest resides. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). Of these, the first two—a substantial likelihood of success on the merits and irreparable injury—are "the most critical." Id. It is probable that the government will succeed against the plaintiffs' contention that Executive Order No. 14163's suspension of refugee admissions is invalid, and the courts are precluded from conducting "a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications." Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. Section 1182(f) requires only that the President "find[]” the entry of certain aliens “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and this condition has unquestionably been met. Id. at 685. “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to prohibit “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The other considerations, which encompass domestic and foreign policy interests as determined by the President’s “broad discretion,” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also weigh in favor of the United States.

As will be detailed more thoroughly in a forthcoming opinion, the government does not appear likely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ Administrative Procedure Act claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is obligated to deliver specified reception and placement assistance to refugees after they are admitted into the country. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) mandates that, “to the extent of available appropriations,” the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—part of the Department of Health and Human Services—must: (i) allocate sufficient resources toward employment training and job placement to help refugees attain economic independence as swiftly as possible, (ii) furnish refugees the opportunity to gain adequate English language proficiency to facilitate effective resettlement expeditiously, (iii) ensure that cash assistance is distributed to refugees so as not to undermine their path to economic self-sufficiency, consistent with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) guarantee equal participation opportunities for women and men in training and instruction programs. Refer also to 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq., which delineate the federal financial support for refugee services. Likewise, with respect to unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). As for cash and medical support for newly resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to “develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” For Fiscal Year 2025, Congress allocated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (adopting appropriations enacted in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147); however, this figure was decreased by $800 million per the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Section 1523 further imposes a reporting obligation on the Secretary, requiring submission of a comprehensive report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—may be delivered via contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Traditionally, the United States has utilized cooperative agreements with a range of resettlement organizations for this purpose. The organizational plaintiffs comprise three entities with which the Department of State has previously maintained such cooperative agreements.

As previously mentioned, in February 2024, the State Department ended all cooperative agreements relating to the provision of these services. Recognizing this termination of funding for resettlement services, on March 10, 2025, the government informed the district court that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. Nevertheless, despite this assertion, at oral argument before the panel the government indicated that it did not know if any progress had occurred toward engaging a new agency or agencies to deliver reception and placement services.

Given the government’s lack of clarity regarding its ability to fulfill the statutory mandate under 8 U.S.C. § 1522 to provide reception and placement services, the government is ordered to restore the cooperative agreements necessary to supply the reception and placement services described in § 1522 for refugees admitted to the United States. These services must include those ordinarily and customarily provided to such refugees under the previous cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President is afforded significant discretion and deference regarding immigration policies, the district court wrongly prohibited the executive branch from carrying out the President’s policy to restrict the entry of refugees and the associated provision of services. Therefore, I would grant a full stay of the district court's injunctions.

While my fellow judges and I concur that the President possesses the power to enact a suspension on refugee admissions, justifying a stay of the injunction on that ground, our views diverge concerning whether the federal government is legally obligated to deliver services to refugees who were already admitted before the moratorium was instituted. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing such an obligation on the government to offer particular services to refugees. From my perspective, however, this statute is best understood as conferring discretionary authority rather than imposing a duty.

Looking first at the statutory framework: Section 1522 is entitled “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees” (emphasis in original). The term “authorization” denotes discretion rather than compulsion. See AUTHORIZATION, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining the term as “permission to do something” or “official document granting such permission”). By enacting §1522, Congress enables, but does not compel, governmental action.

Moreover, the four express statutory subsections that appropriate funding for various refugee-related services—such as “Program of initial resettlement,” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—uniformly declare that the “Director is authorized” to provide such support. U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). These provisions further indicate congressional intent to vest discretion with the executive regarding funding decisions.

In support of their assertion that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues rely on §1522(a)—entitled “Conditions and consideration”—which contains the terms “shall” and “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this directive is circumscribed by the language that directly precedes it: “In providing assistance under this section [referring to the discretionary funding found in §1522(b)-(e)]. . .” Essentially, §1522(a) establishes certain obligatory “conditions and considerations” that must apply only if the government opts to fund refugee programs. For instance, the Director is required to “make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [in accordance with §1522(c)’s discretionary funds for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] to promote economic self-sufficiency among refugees as promptly as feasible [meaning this serves as a mandatory condition or consideration, but only in the event the government allocates funding].”

To further their argument for mandatory funding, my colleagues reference subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which might be read as imposing certain duties upon the Director. Neither subsection, however, substantially undermines the broader function of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) obligates the program’s Director to assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee minors only when such responsibility becomes “necessary.” This part also permits the Director to “make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite employing “shall,” this subsection exhibits significant deference toward executive discretion and lacks the force of a strict command. Furthermore, the record does not indicate the presence of any unaccompanied refugee children in this matter. Similarly, subsection (e)(7)(A) instructs that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” initiatives offering cash and medical aid to refugees “as needed.” The design and extent of such programs remain subject to executive judgment, not a definitive congressional directive.

From my perspective, Section 1522 empowers the executive branch to devise programs at its discretion, contingent on available appropriations, without mandating their creation or operation. Since the statute does not obligate the executive to deliver these services, this court is not positioned to compel their provision. I therefore respectfully dissent in part.