Title: Pacito v. Trump
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Date: September 12, 2025
Docket: Nos. 25-1313 and 25-1939
Author: Panel order; partial concurrence and partial dissent by Lee, Circuit Judge

Oral argument for this matter was conducted on an expedited schedule on September 3, 2025. The panel will issue its opinion in due time. Meanwhile, this Order shall serve as a stay pending appeal and subject to further directives from this court. We hereby set aside the administrative stay previously granted on July 18, 2025. Additionally, our earlier stay entered on March 25, 2025, and subsequently modified on April 21 and May 9, 2025, is also vacated. The district court’s preliminary injunctions dated February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45), and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79), are hereby stayed in full, except as otherwise provided by this Order. The government’s emergency motion filed on July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108), is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed Executive Order No. 14163, titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program,” published at 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Relying on his authority under 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President concluded that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.” He therefore ordered that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” until further findings could be made. Exec. Order No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (“Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Subsequently, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all funding for the USRAP program, asserting authority under another executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). This freeze on funding, pending additional review, also extended to domestic resettlement services provided to refugees who had been admitted to the United States.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who were either previously admitted into the United States or who have been authorized for resettlement in the United States but still remain outside its borders, as well as three organizations holding cooperative agreements with the State Department to conduct overseas processing for refugee applicants and to deliver resettlement services to refugees already admitted into the country. In February 2025, these plaintiffs initiated an action in the Western District of Washington, contending that the suspension of the refugee program under Executive Order 14163 contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (incorporated in various sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and further alleging that the cessation of funding for USRAP breached several provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (noting that the Refugee Act established “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court, via oral ruling, granted a preliminary injunction that barred enforcement or implementation of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. Subsequently, on February 26, the government terminated all cooperative agreements for the provision of reception and placement services to refugees in the United States and discontinued all but one cooperative agreement for USRAP processing services abroad. On February 28, the district court entered a written order clarifying the parameters of its February 25 preliminary injunction, explicitly stating that it also barred the suspension of USRAP funding. On March 24, the district court issued a second preliminary injunction, directing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been terminated following the February 25 order. The government submitted notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay pending appeal of the district court’s February 28 order, which was partially granted by a motions panel of this court on March 25. Citing Trump v. Hawaii, we noted that the President’s authority under Executive Order No. 14163, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nevertheless, we denied the stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Two further orders were issued to clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel also ordered full briefing and directed the Clerk of Court to schedule the appeal on the next available calendar.

After briefing but prior to the September 19, 2025 scheduled argument, the district court, on July 14, issued an order setting out a process for implementing the limited carveout and designating a magistrate judge to supervise the process. On July 17, the government submitted an emergency motion seeking to enforce, clarify, or amend the stay order, which the plaintiffs contested. On July 18, 2025, we entered an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order. We then expedited oral argument.

DISCUSSION

After consideration of the parties' written submissions and oral argument, the matter is now deemed submitted for a decision. A decision on the merits will be provided in due course. Meanwhile, we hereby dissolve our administrative stay issued on July 18 as well as the stay entered on March 25, as subsequently modified on April 21 and May 9. We now enter this stay pending the final adjudication of the appeal. The district court's orders dated February 28 and March 24, 2025 are stayed in full, subject to the exceptions specified below.

The criteria for granting a stay are well established. We weigh four considerations: (1) whether the party seeking the stay has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of success on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will suffer irreparable harm if the stay is not granted; (3) whether issuance of the stay will cause substantial injury to other parties involved; and (4) where the public interest lies. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). The first two elements—a likelihood of success on the merits and irreparable injury—are "the most critical." Id. The government is likely to succeed regarding the plaintiffs’ challenge to the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and this Court may not undertake "a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications." Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. “The sole prerequisite set forth in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685. “The language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to suspend the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The remaining factors, which implicate both the domestic and foreign policy interests of the United States as defined by the “broad discretion” vested in the President, Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also weigh in favor of the United States.

As will be detailed more thoroughly in a forthcoming opinion, the government does not appear likely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ Administrative Procedure Act claims. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is obligated to furnish specific reception and placement services to refugees upon their entry into the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) directs the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, a division within the Department of Health and Human Services, to—“to the extent of available appropriations”—(i) allocate sufficient resources for employment training and placement to facilitate rapid economic self-sufficiency among refugees, (ii) afford refugees opportunities for English language instruction sufficient to support effective and expedited resettlement, (iii) ensure that cash assistance is administered so as not to undermine economic self-reliance, in line with subsection (e)(2), and (iv) guarantee that women receive equal access as men to training and educational programs. See also 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (setting forth the scope of federal funding for refugee services). Regarding unaccompanied minor refugees, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). For the provision of cash and medical aid to recently arrived refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) instructs that the Secretary of Health and Human Services “shall develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” Notably, for the 2025 fiscal year, Congress appropriated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating funds provided in division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), which amount was subsequently reduced by $800 million pursuant to the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Additionally, § 1523 imposes a duty on the Secretary to submit a comprehensive report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

Pursuant to statute, these resettlement services—commonly called “reception and placement” services—may be delivered through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). The United States has, as a matter of historical practice, utilized cooperative agreements with a range of resettlement organizations for this purpose. The plaintiff organizations in this matter are three entities that have had such cooperative agreements with the Department of State.

As previously noted, the State Department ended all such cooperative agreements for these services in February 2024. In recognition of this termination of resettlement service funding, on March 10, 2025, the government informed the district court that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. However, notwithstanding this statement, at oral argument before the panel, the government indicated it did not know whether any steps had actually been taken to engage a new agency or agencies to deliver reception and placement services.

Given the government’s uncertainty regarding its fulfillment of the statutorily required reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is ordered to restore such cooperative agreements as are necessary to deliver the reception and placement services specified in § 1522 to refugees admitted to the United States. These services must encompass those customarily and typically provided to such refugees under prior cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

Although the President possesses significant discretion and receives substantial deference in the realm of immigration, the district court erred by preventing the executive branch from executing the President’s policy to restrict refugee admissions and related services. Accordingly, I would grant a full stay of the district court’s injunctions.

While my fellow panel members and I concur that the President holds the power to suspend the admission of refugees and would therefore stay the district court’s injunction on that point, we diverge regarding whether the federal government is legally compelled to furnish services to refugees admitted before the suspension was instituted. My colleagues interpret 8 U.S.C. § 1522 to obligate the government to provide specified services to refugees. In my view, the statute is more plausibly understood as permissive authority, rather than an imposition of duty.

To begin with, Section 1522 is captioned “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). The term “authorization” denotes permission rather than compulsion. AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining it as “permission to do something” or an “official document granting such permission”). Through §1522, Congress enables action, but does not command it.

Moreover, the four statutory subsections that allocate funds for distinct refugee services—such as “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—consistently state that the “Director is authorized” to provide such aid. U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). These textual indications confirm that the executive retains discretion regarding the allocation of funds.

In support of their assertion that Section 1522 mandates funding, my colleagues refer to §1522(a), labeled “Conditions and consideration,” which employs the term “shall” along with the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this language is tempered by the phrase immediately preceding it: “In providing assistance under this section [i.e., the discretionary funding provisions found in §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ” Stated differently, §1522(a) establishes certain obligatory “conditions and considerations” that apply only if the government elects to finance refugee programs. For instance, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [pursuant to §1522(c)’s discretionary funding for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugees’] to promote economic self-sufficiency among refugees as rapidly as possible [meaning, this is the required condition or consideration should the government decide to fund it].”

To reinforce their argument that spending is mandatory, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which can be read as placing some obligations on the Director. Yet, neither provision convincingly overrides the general structure of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) stipulates that the program’s Director must assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children only when such responsibility is “necessary.” The subsection also permits the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” While the subsection employs the word “shall,” it largely defers to executive judgment and does not establish a clear-cut mandate. Moreover, it is unclear from the record whether any unaccompanied refugee children are relevant here. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) requires that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” programs for cash and medical support for refugees “as needed.” The extent and contours of these programs remain subject to executive discretion—this is far from an unequivocal congressional directive.

In my opinion, Section 1522 allows the executive branch to establish programs as it sees fit, provided appropriations exist. It does not compel operation of such programs. Because the statute does not obligate the executive branch to deliver these services, it is not within this court’s purview to order them. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent in part.