Title: Pacito v. Trump

The Court conducted an expedited oral argument in this matter on September 3, 2025. A formal opinion will be released in due course. Meanwhile, this Order shall serve to impose a stay pending the resolution of the appeal or further directive from this Court. The administrative stay previously granted on July 18, 2025 is hereby lifted. Likewise, we set aside the stay entered on March 25, 2025, as subsequently amended on April 21 and May 9, 2025. The preliminary injunctions issued by the district court on February 28, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 45), and March 24, 2025 (Dist. Ct. Dkt. 79), are hereby stayed in full, except as provided within this Order. The government’s emergency motion filed July 17, 2025 (Dkt. 108), is denied as moot.

BACKGROUND

On January 20, 2025, President Trump signed an executive order titled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.” Exec. Order No. 14163, 90 Fed. Reg. 8459 (Jan. 30, 2025). Acting under the authority of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President found that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and mandated a suspension of “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP” until additional determinations could be made. Exec. Order No. 14163, § 3(a). See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (“[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”). Subsequently, on January 24, 2025, the Department of State halted all funding for the USRAP program, claiming authority under a separate executive order, “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.” Exec. Order No. 14169, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619 (Jan. 20, 2025). This funding freeze, pending a further assessment, also affected domestic resettlement assistance for refugees already admitted to the United States.

The plaintiffs consist of refugees who were either previously allowed entry into the United States or who have been approved for resettlement but are still abroad, along with three organizations that had formal agreements with the State Department to facilitate overseas processing for refugee status applicants and to deliver resettlement services to refugees once admitted to the United States. In February 2025, these plaintiffs brought an action in the Western District of Washington, contending that Executive Order 14163's halt of the refugee program contravened the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (as codified in portions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and that the cessation of funding for USRAP breached various sections of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq. Cf. Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (characterizing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”). On February 25, the district court orally granted a preliminary injunction that barred the enforcement or execution of §§ 3(a), (b), (c), and 4 of Executive Order No. 14163. The following day, February 26, the government ended all cooperative agreements for providing reception and placement services for refugees within the United States, as well as all but one agreement related to USRAP processing services abroad. Then, on February 28, the district court issued a written order clarifying the preliminary injunction’s reach, stating that it additionally forbids suspending USRAP funding. On March 24, the district court issued a second preliminary injunction directing the State Department to restore all cooperative agreements that had been terminated subsequent to the February 25 decision. The government submitted notices of appeal on February 28 and March 25, 2025.

The government requested a stay of the district court’s February 28 order while its appeal was pending, and on March 25, a motions panel of this court partially granted that request. Referring to Trump v. Hawaii, the panel noted that the authority invoked by the President in issuing Executive Order No. 14163, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “exudes deference” toward the President and “vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)). Nonetheless, we denied the government’s request for a stay “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1. Subsequently, we issued two additional orders to further clarify this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025. The motions panel also called for comprehensive briefing and instructed the Clerk of Court to set the appeal for the next available session.

After the submission of briefs but prior to the argument set for September 19, 2025, the district court, on July 14, adopted an order to implement a framework for the limited carveout’s enforcement and designated a magistrate judge to supervise the process. In response, the government filed an emergency motion on July 17 seeking enforcement, clarification, or modification of the stay order, which the plaintiffs opposed. On July 18, 2025, we entered an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order and arranged for expedited oral argument.

DISCUSSION

After reviewing the briefs submitted by the parties and hearing oral argument, the court submits the matter for decision. An opinion addressing the merits will follow in due course. Meanwhile, we hereby lift both our administrative stay dated July 18 and our stay of March 25, as subsequently modified on April 21 and May 9. We now impose this stay pending the ultimate disposition of this appeal. The district court’s orders of February 28 and March 24, 2025, are hereby stayed in full, subject to the exceptions detailed below.

The criteria governing the issuance of a stay are firmly established. The court evaluates four considerations: (1) whether the party seeking the stay has demonstrated a strong likelihood of success on the merits; (2) whether, in the absence of a stay, the applicant would sustain irreparable harm; (3) whether the issuance of a stay would substantially injure other parties involved in the proceeding; and (4) where the public interest resides. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009). Of these, the first two—the probability of success on the merits and the risk of irreparable injury—are regarded as “the most critical.” Id. The government has a substantial likelihood of succeeding on plaintiffs’ challenge to Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and judicial review is limited: we may not engage in “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686. As noted in that decision, “[t]he sole prerequisite set forth in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685. Further, “[t]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to suspend the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f). The remaining considerations, implicating both the domestic and international concerns of the United States, and informed by the President’s “broad discretion,” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, also weigh in favor of the United States.

The government, however, does not appear likely to succeed on at least one of the plaintiffs’ APA claims, for reasons that will be discussed in detail in a subsequent opinion. Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1522, certain reception and placement services must be furnished by the government to refugees once they are admitted to the United States. Section 1522(a)(1)(A) directs the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement—part of the Department of Health and Human Services—“to the extent of available appropriations,” to: (i) allocate enough resources to facilitate employment training and placement for refugees so that they may reach economic self-sufficiency promptly, (ii) offer adequate opportunities for refugees to learn English to allow for effective resettlement as quickly as possible, (iii) ensure that cash assistance provided to refugees is structured so as not to undermine their economic independence, as detailed in subsection (e)(2), and (iv) ensure that women receive equal access as men to training and instructional programs. Refer also to 45 C.F.R. §§ 400.200 et seq. (outlining the federal financial support for refugee services). For unaccompanied refugee minors, § 1522(d)(2)(B) states: “During any interim period while such a child is in the United States or in transit to the United States but before the child is so placed, the Director shall assume legal responsibility (including financial responsibility) for the child, if necessary, and is authorized to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care” (emphasis in original). Regarding cash and medical benefits for recently resettled refugees, § 1522(e)(7)(A) requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to “develop and implement alternative projects for refugees who have been in the United States less than thirty-six months, under which refugees are provided interim support, medical services, support services, and case management, as needed.” It is also relevant that Congress allocated $3.178 billion for migration and refugee assistance for FY 2025, see Pub. L. No. 119-4 § 1101(a)(11) (incorporating funding from division F of Pub. L. No. 118-147), although this sum was reduced by $800 million by the Rescissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(6). Accountability is mandated by § 1523, requiring the Secretary to provide a comprehensive report “on activities under this subchapter to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year.”

By statute, these resettlement services—commonly known as “reception and placement” services—may be delivered by way of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii). Historically, the United States has executed cooperative agreements with various resettlement organizations for this purpose. The organizational plaintiffs in this case comprise three organizations that previously held such cooperative agreements with the Department of State.

As noted earlier, the State Department, in February 2024, ended all cooperative agreements for providing these services. Following this termination of funding, the government informed the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5. However, despite this assertion, during oral argument before the panel, the government stated it did not know whether any steps had been taken toward engaging a new agency or agencies capable of providing the required reception and placement services.

Given the government’s lack of clarity concerning its ability to provide the reception and placement services required by 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government is hereby ordered to reinstate those cooperative agreements essential for furnishing the reception and placement services outlined in § 1522 to refugees admitted into the United States. Such services must encompass those customarily and ordinarily extended to such refugees pursuant to the prior cooperative agreements.

LEE, Circuit Judge, concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part.

While the President is granted substantial latitude and is generally accorded deference in matters relating to immigration, the district court improperly prevented the executive branch from executing the President’s chosen policy to restrict the admission of refugees and the provision of related services. Accordingly, I would stay the district court’s injunctions in full.

The panel unanimously agrees that the President possesses the power to institute a temporary halt on refugee admissions, and on that basis, would stay the district court’s injunction regarding this policy. Our opinions diverge, however, concerning the federal government's purported obligation to render services to refugees who were admitted prior to the effective date of the suspension. My colleagues construe 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as imposing a mandatory duty on the government to supply designated services to refugees. In contrast, I read the statute’s language as a grant of authority rather than a compulsory command.

To begin: The title of Section 1522 reads, “Authorization for programs for domestic resettlement of and assistance to refugees.” (emphasis in original). An authorization typically confers discretion, rather than imposing an obligation. See AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (“permission to do something” or an “official document granting such permission”). Thus, §1522 constitutes legislative permission, not a directive.

Moreover, the four distinct statutory clauses that supply appropriations for various refugee-related services—such as “Program of initial resettlement” and “Cash assistance and medical assistance to refugees”—uniformly use the formulation that the “Director is authorized” to furnish assistance. U.S.C. §1522(b)-(e) (emphasis added). Once again, this wording strongly indicates that the executive branch retains discretion in making funding decisions.

In contending that Section 1522 requires mandatory funding, my colleagues refer to §1522(a)—entitled “Conditions and consideration”—which contains the term “shall” as well as the language “to the extent of available appropriations.” However, this language is circumscribed by the immediately prior clause: “In providing assistance under this section [i.e., the discretionary funding provisions of §1522(b)-(e)]. . . .” Put differently, §1522(a) mandates specific “conditions and considerations” only if the government elects to fund refugee-related programs. For instance, the Director “shall. . . make available sufficient resources for employment training and placement [pursuant to §1522(c)’s discretionary funding for ‘Project grants and contracts for services for refugee’] in order to achieve economic self-sufficiency among refugees as quickly as possible”—making this a compulsory condition or consideration, but solely in the event the government opts to fund it.

To reinforce their position that spending is obligatory, my colleagues point to subsections (d)(2)(B) and (e)(7)(A), which may be read to place certain duties on the Director. Nevertheless, neither provision offers compelling rebuttal to the overall structure of §1522. Subsection (d)(2)(B) stipulates that the Director must assume legal and financial responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children only where such responsibility is “necessary.” The statute further authorizes the Director “to make necessary decisions to provide for the child’s immediate care.” Despite the use of “shall,” this subsection is laden with discretion afforded to the executive branch and falls short of establishing a concrete requirement. Additionally, the record does not clearly indicate the presence of unaccompanied refugee children at issue in this matter. Likewise, subsection (e)(7)(A) provides that the “Secretary shall develop and implement” projects for cash and medical assistance for refugees “as needed.” The design and implementation of these programs are left to executive judgment—far from a strict congressional directive.

In my assessment, Section 1522 confers authority upon the executive branch to design and operate programs as it deems appropriate, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. It does not impose an obligation that such programs be maintained. Since there is no statutory requirement mandating provision of these services by the executive branch, it is not within our court’s authority to require them. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent in part.