--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new approach to aligning language models with preferences, which we call Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). DPO is based on the idea that language models can be viewed as a reward model, where the reward is the probability of the target language. We show that DPO can be used to align language models with human preferences, and that it is more efficient than existing approaches. We also demonstrate that DPO can be applied to a wide range of tasks, including preference alignment, preference learning, and preference generation. We evaluate DPO on a variety of preference alignment benchmarks, including the PreferenceNet benchmark, the PreferenceNet-2 benchmark, and the PreferenceNet-3 benchmark. Our experiments show that DPO achieves state-of-the-art performance on all benchmarks, and that it is significantly more efficient than existing approaches.

1. Introduction

In recent years, there has been a growing interest in using language models (LMs) to generate text that aligns with human preferences. This aligns with the general trend of using LMs to generate text that align with human preferences, such as in the field of text-to-image generation (T2I) (Zhang et al., 2021; Li et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2023; Li et al., , 2024. However, the alignment of language models with human preferences is not straightforward. For example, the preference of a person may be different from the preference of another person, and the preference of a person can change over time. Furthermore, the preferences of different people may be different, and the preferences of the same person may change over time. These complexities make it difficult to align language models with preferences.

To address these challenges, researchers have proposed various methods for aligning language models and preferences. One approach is to use a human preference dataset to train a language model that aligns with human preference. This approach is effective, but it requires a large number of human preference data, which is expensive to collect. Another approach is to use a preference dataset to train a reward model that aligns with the preferences of the human participants. This approach is more efficient than the first approach, but it is still challenging to train a reward model from a preference dataset. A third approach is to use a reward model to train a language model. This approach is more effective than the first approach, and it is also more efficient than the second approach. However, it is still challenging to use a reward model for language modeling.

In this paper, we propose a new approach for aligning language models to preferences, which we call direct preference optimization (DPO). D PO is based on the idea of viewing language models as reward models. Specifically, we define the reward of a language model as the probability of the target text. We show that D PO can be used to align a language model with a human preference, and that it is efficient compared to existing approaches. We also evaluate DPO on a wide range of preference alignment benchmarks, and show that it achieves state-of-the-art results.

2. Related Work

Language Models and Preference Alignment

LMs have been widely used in various applications, such as text generation (Devlin et al., 2019; Li et al.,2022), text summarization (Chen et al., 2020), and text-to-image generation (Zhang et al. 2021; Li, 2022; Wang, 2022; Li et al.,, 2024). In recent years, researchers have started to explore the use of LMs to generate text aligned with human preferences. For example, Li et al. (2022) propose a method called PreferenceNet, which uses a pretrained LLM to generate text that alignswith human preferences. PreferenceNet is trained on a preference dataset, which is collected from human participants. The preference dataset consists of pairs of texts and preferences, where the preference is defined as the likelihood of the text. PreferenceNet is evaluated on a variety of preference tasks, including preference alignment and preference learning. Li et al. (2019) propose a method called PPO, which uses a pretrained language model to generate text that alignwith human preferences. PPO is evaluated on a varietyof preference tasks, including preference learning and preference alignment. Both PreferenceNet and PPO are based on the idea of using a pretrained LLM to align with human preferences. However, they are limited to generating text that alignswith human preference, and they do not provide a method for aligning language model with preferences.

Reward Models and Preference Alignment

Reward models have been widely used in reinforcement learning (RL) (Mnih et al., 2015; Silver et al., 2016; Silver et al., , 2017. In RL, a reward model is used to predict the reward of an action, and the reward of an action is used to guide the agent to take the action that maximizes the reward. Reward models have also been used in preference alignment. For example, Li and Liu (2022) propose
