--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that can be applied to any large pretrained model. BOFT is based on the idea of factorizing the finetuning matrix into a product of two matrices, one of which is a block-diagonal matrix. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it reduces the number of finetuning parameters by a factor of the block size. BOFT is also computationally efficient because it can be implemented with a single matrix multiplication. BOFT is orthogonal, which means that it preserves the invariance of the pretrained model. BOFT can be applied to any pretrained model, including models that are not fully connected. BOFT is a general method that can be used for finetuning any pretrained model, including language models, vision models, and other types of models. BOFT is a simple and efficient method that can be used to improve the performance of large pretrained models. BOFT is an effective method for finetuning large pretrained models, and it is a promising direction for future research.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel and effective method for adapting large models to new tasks, Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT). OFT is based on the idea that the finetuning matrix can be factorized into a product of two orthogonal matrices, one of which has a block-diagonal structure. OFT is parameter-efficient because it only finetunes a subset of the parameters, and it is computationally efficient because it only requires a single matrix multiplication. OFT is orthogonal, which means it preserves the invariances of the pretrained model. OFT can be applied to any type of model, including language models and vision models. OFT is a general method that is applicable to any type of model. OFT is a simple and effective method that can be used with any type of model. The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning for Language Models" presents a novel and parameter-efficient method for finetuning language models, Orthogonal Butterfly Finetuning (OBF). OBF is based on the idea to factorize the finetuning matrix as a product of two orthogonal factors, one of which has block-diagonal structure. OBF is parameter-efficient because it finetunes only a subset of the parameters. OBF is computationally efficient because only a single matrix multiplication is required. OBF is orthogonal, which means the invariances of a pretrained model are preserved. OBF can be applied to any language model, including large language models. OBF is a general method that applies to any type of model.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonality for Finetuning" presents an efficient method for finetuning pretrained models, Orthogonal Butterfly. OFT is based on factorizing the finetune matrix into a product of orthogonal matrices, one of them having a block-diagonal structure, which makes it parameter-efficient. OFT is orthogonal and computationally efficient. OFT can be used with any pretrained model, including vision models and language models. OFT is general and can be used with any model. OFT is simple and effective. OFT is a promising direction for finetuning large models.

The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning with Block-diagonal Structure" presents a novel and computationally efficient method for finetunning pretrained models, Orthogonal Finetuning. OFT is based the idea of factorizing a finetuning matrix into the product of two orthogonal matrices. OFT is parameter efficient because it finetunes a subset parameters. OFT is computationally efficient because a single matrix multiplication is sufficient. OFT is orthogonal which means the invariance of a pretrained model is preserved. OFT can be apply to any pretrained model, such as vision models and language models.

The paper "Orthogonal Finetuning for Vision Models" presents a novel method for finetuning vision models, Orthogonal Finetting. OFT is based of the idea of factorizing finetuning matrix into product of orthogonal matrices. OFT finetunes a subset parameter, which makes it parameter efficient. OFT is computaionally efficient because it only requires one matrix multiplication. OFT preserves the invariance property of a pretrained model. OFT is general, and can be applied to any vision model. OFT is effective and simple. OFT is a promissing direction for finetuning vision model.

The paper "Orthogonality for Finetting" presents a novel and effecient method for finetuning models, Orthogonal Fineting. OFT is based off the idea of factorizing of a finetuning matrix as the product of two orthogonal matrix. OFT is parameter effecient because it finetunes subset of parameters. OFT is computational efficient because it only requires on matrix multiplication. OFT preservers the invariance property. OFT is general because it can be applied to any model. OFT simple and effective. OF is a promising direction for fine tuning large models.

The paper presents a novel and effcient
