--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the basics and then move on to the more advanced topics.

The Basics

The paper introduces a new finetuning technique called Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT). OFT is a method for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models. It is based on the idea of preserving the pairwise angular relationships between neurons. OFT is a general-purpose finetuning technique that can be used with any text-to-image diffusion model.

The paper also introduces a new finetuned model called Stable Diffusion v1.5. Stable Diffusion v1.

The paper introduces a new method for measuring the quality of text-to-image generation called the Fréchet Inception Distance (FID). The FID is a metric that measures the similarity between two probability distributions. The paper uses the FID to compare the quality of images generated by different models.

The paper also introduces the concept of a "prompt" as a way to control the content of images generated by text-to-image diffusion models.

The paper introduces a method for generating images from text prompts called "dreambooth". Dreambooth is a tool that allows you to generate images from text prompts by simply pasting the text into a web browser.

The paper introduces a technique for generating images from text called "prompt tuning". Prompt tuning is a technique for finetuning text-t0-image diffusion models by adding a text prompt to the input.

The paper introduces a way to measure the diversity of images generated by a text-to-image diffusion model called the "image diversity score". The image diversity score is a measure of how many unique images are generated by a model for a given prompt.

The paper introduces a finetuning technique called "instance normalization". Instance normalization is a technique for fineting text-to-image diffusion models that involves normalizing the mean and standard deviation of each neuron.

The paper introduces a "pretraining dataset" called Canny 16K. Canny 16K is a dataset of 16,000 images that were selected from the internet using a computer vision algorithm called Canny edge detection.

The paper introduces a dataset called CLIP-400. CLIP-400 is a dataset of 400,000 images that were collected from the internet using a web crawler.

The paper introduces a text-to-image diffusion architecture called Stable Diffusion v2. Stable Diffusion v2 is a text-to-image diffusion network that is trained on 400,000 images from CLIP-400 and 2 million text-image pairs from CLIP.

The paper introduces a loss function called the "instance loss". The instance loss is a loss function that is used to finetune text-to-image diffusion models by minimizing the difference between the generated image and the reference image.

The paper introduces a data augmentation technique called "cutout". Cutout is a technique for augmenting images by randomly removing rectangular regions from the image.

The paper introduces the concept of "pairwise angular similarity". Pairwise angular similarity is a measure of how similar the angular relationships between neurons are.

The paper introduces a metric called the "pairwise angular similarity score". The pairwise angular similarity score is a measure of the pairwise angular similarity between neurons.

The paper introduces a concept called "neural style". Neural style is a way of describing the visual style of an image in terms of the angular relationships between neurons.

The paper describes a method for generating images called "dreambooth".

The paper introduces a finituning technique called "instance finetuning". Instance finetuning is a technique for finituning text-to-image diffusion networks by finetuning the weights of a subset of neurons.

The paper introduces the "instance finetuning loss". The instance finetuning loss is a loss function used to finetune the weights of a subset neurons.

The paper introduces an algorithm called "orthogonal transformation". Orthogonal transformation is an algorithm for transforming a matrix into a matrix that has the same pairwise angular relationships as the original matrix.

The paper introduces a parameter called "k". K is a parameter that controls how many neurons are finetuned during instance finetuning.

The paper introduces a hyperparameter called "learning rate". The learning rate is a hyperparameter that controls how much the model's weights are updated during finetuning.

The Advanced

The paper introduces a fineting technique called "instance fineting". Instance finetuning involves finetuning a subset of neurons in the model.

The paper introduces a measure of image quality called the "Fréchet Inception Distance" (FID). The paper uses the Fid to compare the quality of different text-to-image models.

The paper introduces the idea of "pairwise angular similarities" between neurons. Pairwise angular similarities are a way of measuring how similar the angular relationships are between two neurons.

The paper introduces "instance normalization". Instance normaliztion is a technique for finetting text-to-image diffusion models where the mean and standard deviation are normalized for each neuron.

The paper describes a finetuning technique that is "instance-specific". Instance-specific finetuning involves fineting the weights of a
