--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be helpful to you.

What is Text-to-Image Diffussion?

Text-to-image diffusion is a generative model that can generate images from text descriptions. It is a kind of generative adversarial network (GAN). The text-to-image diffusion model is composed of two parts: the generator and the discriminator. The generator is used to generate images from text descriptions, and the discriminator is used to judge whether the generated images are real or fake. The text-to-image diffusion network is trained by minimizing the loss function of the discriminator. The text-to-image generation process is shown in Figure 1.

Figure 1. The text-to-image generative model is composed of a generator and a discriminator. The generator is trained by minimizing the discriminator's loss function.

The text-to-image diffusion model has achieved great success in generating images from text descriptions. However, the text-to-image diffusion model also has some shortcomings. For example, the text-to-image model is difficult to control the generated images. The text-to-image model can only generate images that are similar to the text description, but it cannot generate images that are completely different from the text description. In addition, the text-to-image generation model is difficult to train. The training process of the text-to-image model requires a large number of training data, and the training process is very time-consuming.

How to Control Text-to-Image Diffuision?

The paper "Controlling Text-To-Image Diffusion by Finetuning" proposes a method to control the text-to-image diffusion generative model. The method is to use the text-to-image diffusion network as the backbone, and then use the finetuning method to train the text-to-image diffusion generator. The finetuning method is to add a small learning rate to the parameters of the text-to-image diffusion neural network, and then train the text-to-image neural network with a small number of training data. The finetuning process is shown in Figure2.

Figure 2. The finetuning training process of the text-t0-image diffusion model.

The finetuning method is used to train the text-to-imag diffusion model. The finetuning model is used to generate images that are similar or different from the text description, and the finetuning model can also be used to generate images with different styles. The finetuning of the text-to-image generation network is shown in Figure 3.

Figure 3. The finetuning network is used to generate images similar to the text description. The finetuning can also be used to change the style of the generated images.

The finetuning model is trained by adding a small learning rate to each parameter of the text-to-image generative network. The finetuning is used to train the model to generate images that are consistent with the text description. The text-to-image finetuning model is also used to generate images with a different style. The finetuning parameters are used to adjust the style of the generated image. The finetuning parameter is shown in Figure 4.

Figure 4. The finetuning control parameter is used to adjust the style and content of the generated image.

The finetuning control parameter can be used to adjust the style or content of the generated image. For example, the finetuning control parameter value is 0, the finetuning model will generate images that are consistent in style with the original text-to-image diffusion model. If the finetuning control value is 1, the finetuning network will generate images with a different content from the original text-to-image model. The finetuned control parameter is shown in Figure5.

Figure 5. The finetuning contol parameter is used to adjust both the style and content of generated images.

The finituning control parameter is used for both style and content adjustment. For example, the value of the finetuning control is 0.5, the finetuning will generate images with a style that is half-way between the original text-to-image generative and the finetuning generative models. The finetuning controller is shown in Figure 6.

Figure 6. The finetuning generator is used to generate the image, and the finetuned control parameter can adjust the style and content.

The finetuning controller is used to adjust the finetuning control parameters. The finetuning finetuning control parameter values are 0, 0.5, and 1. The finetuning generative model is used to generate the images. The finetuning image is shown in Figure 7.

Figure 7. The finetuning images generated by the finetuning control values of 0, 0,5, and 1.

The finetuning images are generated by the finetuned control values of 0.5, 0, and 1. It can be seen from Figure 7 that the finetuning control images are generated with different styles. The images generated by the finituning control value of 
