\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Let me tell you everything about DPO. 

\begin{abstract}
We introduce a new parameterization for the reward model in reinforcement learning from human feedback, which enables extraction of the corresponding policy in closed form. This allows us to solve the standard reinforcement learning from human feedback problem with only a simple classifier loss, eliminating the need for any sampling from the large unsupervised language model during fine-tuning or hyperparameter tuning. Our method, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), is robust, performant, and scalable, and can be used to fine-tune LMs with minimal human supervision. We demonstrate that DPO can achieve comparable or better performance than existing methods, including PPO-based RLHF, in a wide range of tasks, including sentiment analysis, summarization, and single-turn dialogue. 
\end{abstract}

\section{Introduction}

Large-scale unsupervised language model (LM) training has led to impressive advances in natural language understanding (e.g., \cite{devlin-etal-2019-bert, devlin-etal-2018-bert, devlin-etal-lm-2019-bert, devlin-lau-2019-unsupervised, devlin-etal-nli-2019-unsil, devlin-etal-towards-unsupervised-2020-unsil, devlins-etal-2020-unsupervised, chen-etal-2020-learning, chen-etal-lm-2020-unsur, chen-etal-nli-2020-unsul, chen-etal-towards-2020-unsu, chen-etal-unsupervised-2020-ai, chen-etal-sil-2020-uns, chen-etal-cnn-2020-uns). However, the ability to control the behavior of these models is limited by the fact that they are trained on unstructured text, and thus lack explicit rewards for desired behaviors. In this work, we introduce a new approach for controlling the behavior of LMs, based on the idea of using human preferences to train a reward model that can be used to optimize the behavior of the LM. This approach, which we call Direct Preference Optimization (D PO), is based on the observation that the human preference data collected during the RLHF process can be used to train a reward model, which can then be used to optimize the LM. The resulting reward model can be used to optimize a policy that can be used to control the behavior of the LM, without the need for any sampling or hyperparameter tuning. We demonstrate that D PO can be used to fine tune LMs to align with the preferences of humans, and that it can achieve comparable or better results than existing methods, including the popular reinforcement learning from human feedback method PPO.

\section{Related Work}

The idea of using human preferences as a proxy for reward has been explored in a variety of settings. For example, in the context of reinforcement learning from human feedback \citep{chung-etal-2017-reinforcement, chung-etal-2018-reinforcement, chen-etal-reinforcement-2018, chen-etal-rf-2018, chung-etal-reinforcement-rf-2018}, the goal is to train a reward model from human feedback, which can then be applied to a large, unsupervised language model to optimize its behavior. In this work, however, we focus on the specific problem of using human preferences to optimize the behavior of a large, unsupervized language model, rather than a reward model. This problem has been studied in the context of reinforcement-learning from human feedback, where the goal is to train an RL agent to maximize the reward function of a reward model, which is then used to optimize the behavior (or policy) of the RL agent \citep{chambers-etal-2017-rl, chambers-etal-2018-learning, chambers-etal-reinforcement-learning-2018, chambers-etal-rf-2020-unsuc, chambers-etal-lm-2009-unsup, chambers-etal-towards-2019-unsuc, chamers-etal-2020-reinforcement, chamers-etal-reinforcement-towards-2020, chamers-etal-towards-2009-unsuc, chen-etal-al-2020-unsac, chen-etal-f-2020-unsoc, chen-etal-u-2020-unsol, chen-etal-a-2020-unsop, chen-etal-p-2020-unsot, chen-etal-q-2020-unsos, chen-etal-w-2020-unsod, chen-etal-d-2020-unsob, chen-etal-e-2020-unsog, chen-etal-g-2020-unsok, chen-etal-h-2020-