\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

### Difference between Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and Program-of-Thought (PoT) in DeepSeekMath?
Question:
I am reading the Supervised Fine-Tuning section of the DeepSeekMath paper. The authors mention that they used a mixture of Chain-of-Thought (CoT), Program-of-Thought (PoT), and tool-integrated reasoning formats for their 776K training examples. I understand that CoT involves step-by-step natural language reasoning, but I'm not entirely clear on what constitutes a 'Program-of-Thought' approach and how it differs from 'tool-integrated reasoning'. Could someone clarify these three distinctions?
Answer:
In the context of the DeepSeekMath paper, these three formats represent a spectrum of how a model handles the transition from a mathematical problem to a final answer, moving from purely linguistic reasoning to purely algorithmic execution, and finally to a hybrid of both.

Chain-of-Thought (CoT) is the most straightforward approach, where the model generates a sequence of natural language steps to arrive at a solution. Intuitively, this is like a student "thinking out loud" or writing out their work on a chalkboard. The reasoning is entirely contained within the language model's own weights; the model predicts the next token based on the linguistic logic of the previous steps. While powerful, CoT is prone to "calculation errors" because the model is essentially simulating arithmetic through token prediction rather than performing actual math.

Program-of-Thought (PoT) shifts the burden of computation from the model's linguistic capabilities to an external execution environment. Instead of writing out the steps in English, the model generates a program—specifically Python code in the case of DeepSeekMath—to solve the problem. As noted in the paper, the model leverages libraries such as $\textit{math}$ and $\textit{sympy}$ for intricate computations. The intuitive difference here is that the model acts as a programmer rather than a mathematician; it defines the logic in code, and the final answer is the output of the program's execution. This eliminates the common arithmetic hallucinations found in CoT, as the precision is guaranteed by the Python interpreter.

Tool-integrated reasoning is a hybrid paradigm that combines the strengths of both CoT and PoT. Rather than choosing between a text-only solution or a code-only solution, the model interleaves natural language reasoning with tool calls. For example, it might use natural language to strategize the approach or interpret a geometric property and then switch to a Python snippet to solve a complex equation. This mirrors how a human mathematician actually works: using a mix of conceptual intuition (natural language) and a calculator or computer algebra system (tools) to ensure accuracy. In the paper, this is used to further enhance the model's performance on benchmarks like MATH, allowing it to approach a higher accuracy by integrating the flexibility of language with the rigor of code.