----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was found to have progressive dysphagia, dysphonia, proximal muscle weakness and creatine kinase elevation over a 4-month course.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a female patient in her 60s who developed progressive dysphagia, dysphonia, and elevated creatine kinase over a 4-month course after semaglutide use was found on evaluation to have proximal muscle weakness.
target: proximal muscle weakness

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was found to have progressive dysphagia, dysphonia, proximal muscle weakness and creatine kinase elevation over a 4-month course.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a female patient in her 60s developed progressive dysphagia, dysphonia, proximal muscle weakness, and creatine kinase elevation over a 4-month course.
target: 4-month course

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her work-up revealed features consistent with necrotising myopathy with inflammatory infiltrate on biopsy, and she responded to immunosuppression with corticosteroids and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG).
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient’s work-up showed necrotising myopathy with inflammatory infiltrate on biopsy, and she improved with immunosuppression; besides corticosteroids, she responded to intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG).
target: intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG)

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She gradually improved and successfully returned to her baseline functional status while off immunosuppression for several months and with continued avoidance of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the female patient in her 60s gradually improved after treatment and returned to her baseline functional status while off immunosuppression for several months, during which she continued to avoid glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists.
target: glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She gradually improved and successfully returned to her baseline functional status while off immunosuppression for several months and with continued avoidance of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the female patient in her 60s gradually improved after treatment for immune-mediated necrotising myopathy and returned to her baseline functional status, which she maintained off immunosuppression for several months.
target: several months

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Here, we describe the first reported case of IMNM probably associated with GLP-1 receptor agonist use, with apparent response to a short course of immunosuppression and IVIG.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient with the first reported case of immune-mediated necrotising myopathy probably associated with GLP-1 receptor agonist use appeared to respond to "a short course of immunosuppression and IVIG".
target: "a short course of immunosuppression and IVIG"

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In recent years, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists have been commonly used for metabolic diseases including type 2 diabetes and obesity.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the background notes that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are commonly used for metabolic diseases and diabetes management, including type 2 diabetes.
target: type 2 diabetes

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Among the adverse effects described for this class of medications, a loss of skeletal muscle mass has been observed.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the background discussion notes that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists have been associated with a loss of skeletal muscle mass.
target: a loss of skeletal muscle mass

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Among the adverse effects described for this class of medications, a loss of skeletal muscle mass has been observed.
fact: In the background section of the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", an adverse effect described for glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists is a decrease in skeletal muscle mass.
target: skeletal muscle mass

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A recent case report described rhabdomyolysis with necrotising features associated with tirzepatide, another commonly used GLP-1 receptor agonist.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the background notes that a recent case report described rhabdomyolysis with necrotising features associated with the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist tirzepatide.
target: tirzepatide

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A recent case report described rhabdomyolysis with necrotising features associated with tirzepatide, another commonly used GLP-1 receptor agonist.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a recent case report mentioned in the background described rhabdomyolysis with necrotising features associated with tirzepatide as a GLP-1 receptor agonist.
target: GLP-1 receptor agonist

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this case, affected patient developed creatine kinase (CK) elevation in the thousands while being on active treatment, and the CK elevation started improving within days after drug discontinuation, which is consistent with drug-induced rhabdomyolysis.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the related patient with rhabdomyolysis-like findings on active treatment developed worsening laboratory abnormalities while receiving treatment, before it began improving after drug discontinuation, including creatine kinase (CK) elevation
target: creatine kinase (CK) elevation

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this case, affected patient developed creatine kinase (CK) elevation in the thousands while being on active treatment, and the CK elevation started improving within days after drug discontinuation, which is consistent with drug-induced rhabdomyolysis.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a related patient developed creatine kinase (CK) elevation in the thousands while receiving active treatment, and within days the CK level began to improve after "drug discontinuation".
target: "drug discontinuation"

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) is a distinct entity of myopathy characterised by aggressive proximal muscle weakness with necrotising myofibres and a paucity of lymphocytic infiltrates on histology.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the muscle weakness in immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) is described as aggressive proximal muscle weakness.
target: aggressive proximal muscle weakness

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) is a distinct entity of myopathy characterised by aggressive proximal muscle weakness with necrotising myofibres and a paucity of lymphocytic infiltrates on histology.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) is described as a distinct myopathy with aggressive proximal muscle weakness and necrotising myofibres, and on histology there is typically a paucity of lymphocytic infiltrates.
target: a paucity of lymphocytic infiltrates

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP) are two autoantibodies highly associated with IMNM.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the two autoantibodies described as being highly associated with immune-mediated necrotising myopathy (IMNM) are Anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP).
target: Anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP)

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP) are two autoantibodies highly associated with IMNM.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", anti-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) and anti-signal recognition particle (SRP) are described as two autoantibodies highly associated with IMNM.
target: IMNM

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In particular, the use of statins which are commonly used in metabolic disorders is strongly associated with HMGCR autoantibody positivity.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the background section notes that certain metabolic-disease medications are discussed in relation to immune-mediated necrotising myopathy, and HMGCR autoantibody positivity is strongly associated with the use of statins.
target: the use of statins

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the case of statins, there were several patients who developed features of necrotising myopathy and were often classified as toxic myopathy or polymyositis prior to the discovery of HMGCR autoantibody association.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", in the discussion of statin-associated necrotising myopathy, patients with these features were often classified before the association with HMGCR autoantibodies was discovered as toxic myopathy or polymyositis.
target: toxic myopathy or polymyositis

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the case of statins, there were several patients who developed features of necrotising myopathy and were often classified as toxic myopathy or polymyositis prior to the discovery of HMGCR autoantibody association.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", several patients developed muscle findings in the setting of statin use and were sometimes classified as toxic myopathy or polymyositis before the HMGCR autoantibody association was recognized, and they developed features of necrotising myopathy.
target: features of necrotising myopathy

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These features, followed by improvement with immunosuppression, were suggestive of an autoimmune myopathy and eventually led to the identification of HMGCR autoantibody as a hallmark characteristic of the disease.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the discussion notes that some patients had persistent myopathy and creatine kinase elevation despite stopping statins, and that their subsequent improvement was suggestive of an autoimmune myopathy following immunosuppression.
target: immunosuppression

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These features, followed by improvement with immunosuppression, were suggestive of an autoimmune myopathy and eventually led to the identification of HMGCR autoantibody as a hallmark characteristic of the disease.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", in prior cases of statin-associated necrotising myopathy in which patients had persistent myopathy and creatine kinase elevation despite stopping the statin, followed by improvement with immunosuppression, the autoantibody eventually identified as a hallmark characteristic of the disease was HMGCR autoantibody.
target: HMGCR autoantibody

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The lack of an autoantibody in this subset of patients not only confers additional diagnostic challenges but also suggests that there are associated autoantibodies and potential triggers yet to be discovered.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the authors note that an estimated third of patients with immune-mediated necrotising myopathy are seronegative, and the lack of an autoantibody in this subset of patients makes the diagnostic process more difficult, resulting in additional diagnostic challenges.
target: additional diagnostic challenges

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A female patient in her 60s with a medical history of obesity, hepatosteatosis, hypertension, hypothyroidism, and remote history of deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism presented with progressive proximal muscle weakness, dysphagia and dysphonia.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a female patient in her 60s presented with progressive proximal muscle weakness and had dysphagia and dysphonia.
target: dysphagia and dysphonia

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was previously in good health and fully independent in her activities of daily living.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", before the onset of her progressive muscle weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia, the patient was previously functioning independently in her daily activities and was in good health
target: in good health

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was previously in good health and fully independent in her activities of daily living.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the female patient in her 60s presented with progressive proximal muscle weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia, and her baseline functional status was fully independent.
target: fully independent

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 3 years prior to her clinical deterioration, she had been undergoing outpatient evaluation for transaminase elevation.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the female patient in her 60s had started an outpatient evaluation for transaminase elevation 3 years prior.
target: 3 years prior

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 3 years prior to her clinical deterioration, she had been undergoing outpatient evaluation for transaminase elevation.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the female patient in her 60s had been undergoing outpatient evaluation 3 years before her clinical deterioration because of transaminase elevation.
target: transaminase elevation

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At that time, the patient had a mild elevation in aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), approximately within the range of twice the upper limit of normal (ALT greater than AST).
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", at outpatient evaluation for transaminase elevation about 3 years before her clinical deterioration, the patient's AST and ALT were mildly elevated at "twice the upper limit of normal".
target: "twice the upper limit of normal"

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Abdominal ultrasound showed hepatomegaly with diffusely increased echotexture most likely representing hepatic steatosis.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the abdominal ultrasound during an earlier evaluation for elevated liver enzymes showed diffusely increased echotexture most likely representing hepatic steatosis, along with hepatomegaly.
target: hepatomegaly

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her viral hepatitis serology, anti-nuclear, anti-mitochondrial, anti-smooth muscle and liver-kidney microsomal antibodies were all negative.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient had an earlier work-up for mild transaminase elevation, and her viral hepatitis serology, anti-nuclear, anti-mitochondrial, and anti-smooth muscle tests were negative, including liver-kidney microsomal antibodies.
target: liver-kidney microsomal antibodies

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A liver biopsy showed steatohepatitis consistent with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/NAFLD Activity Score grade 4/8, stage 0.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the liver biopsy performed during an earlier evaluation for elevated transaminases showed steatohepatitis.
target: steatohepatitis

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A liver biopsy showed steatohepatitis consistent with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/NAFLD Activity Score grade 4/8, stage 0.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the liver biopsy performed during evaluation of mildly elevated transaminases showed steatohepatitis consistent with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), with a NAFLD Activity Score of 4/8.
target: 4/8

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to persistent fatty liver and obesity 2.5 years after the diagnosis of NAFLD, she was initiated on semaglutide.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", semaglutide was started in the setting of persistent fatty liver and obesity after the NAFLD diagnosis, 2.5 years.
target: 2.5 years

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Within hours after receiving her first dose of semaglutide (0.25 mg subcutaneously), she experienced nausea and vomiting.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was started on semaglutide for persistent fatty liver and obesity, and within hours of her first injection she developed nausea and vomiting after receiving a first dose of 0.25 mg subcutaneously.
target: 0.25 mg subcutaneously

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Within hours after receiving her first dose of semaglutide (0.25 mg subcutaneously), she experienced nausea and vomiting.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was started on semaglutide for persistent fatty liver and obesity, and within hours of her first 0.25 mg subcutaneous dose she developed nausea and vomiting.
target: nausea and vomiting

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Symptoms persisted, and she was hospitalised 2 days later for nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure and severe metabolic acidosis.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after receiving her first semaglutide dose and subsequently developing nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, the patient was hospitalised 2 days later.
target: 2 days later

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Symptoms persisted, and she was hospitalised 2 days later for nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure and severe metabolic acidosis.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient developed persistent nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, and acute renal failure within 2 days of her first semaglutide dose and was hospitalised for severe metabolic acidosis.
target: severe metabolic acidosis

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Subsequently, the patient’s renal function improved with hydration, without the need for haemofiltration or haemodialysis.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was hospitalised 2 days after her first semaglutide dose with acute renal failure and severe metabolic acidosis, and her renal function improved without the need for haemofiltration or haemodialysis after supportive care, hydration.
target: hydration

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Subsequently, the patient’s renal function improved with hydration, without the need for haemofiltration or haemodialysis.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was hospitalised 2 days after her first semaglutide dose with acute renal failure, and her renal function later improved with hydration alone, without needing renal replacement therapy, namely haemofiltration or haemodialysis.
target: haemofiltration or haemodialysis

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She did not have any other associated symptoms, such as a rash, muscle pain or cola-coloured urine.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after the patient developed nausea, vomiting, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and elevated creatine kinase shortly after her first 0.25 mg subcutaneous semaglutide dose, the skin-related associated symptom specifically noted as absent was a rash.
target: a rash

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She did not have any other associated symptoms, such as a rash, muscle pain or cola-coloured urine.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was hospitalised 2 days after her first semaglutide dose with nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, and she did not have cola-coloured urine.
target: cola-coloured urine

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During this hospitalisation, she also developed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, but her serum troponin levels were normal.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the hospitalization that followed her first semaglutide dose, when she was admitted with nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, she developed "paroxysmal atrial fibrillation".
target: "paroxysmal atrial fibrillation"

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During this hospitalisation, she also developed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, but her serum troponin levels were normal.
fact: According to the case report "...", the patient's serum troponin levels when she developed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during the hospitalization that followed her first semaglutide dose were "normal".
target: "normal"

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the time of discharge, her gastrointestinal symptoms had resolved but she was deconditioned.
fact: At the time of discharge after the 5-day hospitalization that followed her first semaglutide dose, which had caused nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, her gastrointestinal symptoms had resolved.
target: resolved

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the time of discharge, her gastrointestinal symptoms had resolved but she was deconditioned.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was hospitalized after her first semaglutide dose with nausea, vomiting, poor oral intake, dyspnoea, acute renal failure, and severe metabolic acidosis, and at the time of discharge, her gastrointestinal symptoms had resolved but she was deconditioned.
target: deconditioned

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She denied any prior use of statins, significant consumption of other supplements associated with IMNM such as mushrooms or red yeast rice, or any other nutritional supplements.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after her semaglutide exposure and during the history taken for possible IMNM triggers, the patient reported no prior use of statins.
target: statins

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She denied any prior use of statins, significant consumption of other supplements associated with IMNM such as mushrooms or red yeast rice, or any other nutritional supplements.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient denied significant consumption of mushrooms and other nutritional supplements associated with IMNM, including red yeast rice.
target: red yeast rice

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also denied any significant family history of myopathy, recent excessive or prolonged physical activity, or alcohol or illicit drug use.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after her semaglutide exposure and evaluation, the patient later developed progressive weakness and had significant family history of myopathy.
target: significant family history of myopathy

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also denied any significant family history of myopathy, recent excessive or prolonged physical activity, or alcohol or illicit drug use.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the female patient in her 60s denied several possible contributors while being evaluated for progressive weakness after semaglutide exposure, including illicit drug use.
target: illicit drug use

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 4 months after she received her initial and only dose of semaglutide, she continued to decline.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after receiving her initial and only dose of semaglutide, the patient continued to decline for 4 months.
target: 4 months

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was no longer able to stand or sit upright without assistance, and she had noticed difficulty swallowing liquids and solids for several days.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", 4 months after the patient received her first and only dose of semaglutide, she was no longer able to stand or sit upright without assistance and had developed difficulty swallowing, which she had noticed for several days, including liquids and solids.
target: liquids and solids

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This prompted her to present to an outside hospital where she was found to have an elevated CK of 3992 U/L (normal range: 12–191 U/L), present on admission.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient returned to an outside hospital 4 months after her initial and only dose of semaglutide because of worsening weakness and dysphagia, and her creatine kinase (CK) level on admission at that outside hospital was 3992 U/L.
target: 3992 U/L

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This prompted her to present to an outside hospital where she was found to have an elevated CK of 3992 U/L (normal range: 12–191 U/L), present on admission.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was admitted to an outside hospital 4 months after her single semaglutide dose because of worsening weakness and dysphagia, and on that admission her creatine kinase (CK) was 3992 U/L, with the reported normal range was 12–191 U/L.
target: 12–191 U/L

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was treated with 1000 mg of intravenous methylprednisolone daily for 5 days while under the care of neurology consultation using telemedicine.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient with progressive weakness and dysphagia about 4 months after her initial and only semaglutide dose, elevated CK, and neurology consultation was treated daily for 5 days during that admission with intravenous methylprednisolone
target: intravenous methylprednisolone

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was then transferred to a tertiary hospital for rheumatology evaluation where she was found to be afebrile, normotensive and otherwise in no distress.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after 4 months of progressive weakness and dysphagia and treatment with 5 days of intravenous methylprednisolone at an outside hospital, she was transferred to a tertiary hospital for "rheumatology evaluation".
target: "rheumatology evaluation"

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Physical examination revealed significant weakness, most evident in the proximal muscle groups (table 1).
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", when the patient was evaluated at the tertiary hospital after 4 months of progressive weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia, the physical examination revealed significant weakness.
target: significant weakness

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Physical examination revealed significant weakness, most evident in the proximal muscle groups (table 1).
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after the patient developed progressive weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia, physical examination showed significant weakness that was most evident in the proximal muscle groups.
target: proximal muscle groups

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She did not exhibit any rashes, skin changes, crackles, synovitis, oedema, sicca, oral ulcers or any other neurological deficits.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after 4 months of progressive proximal weakness, dysphagia, and dysphonia following a single dose of semaglutide, the abnormal lung finding that was not present on physical examination at the tertiary hospital was "crackles".
target: "crackles"

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She did not exhibit any rashes, skin changes, crackles, synovitis, oedema, sicca, oral ulcers or any other neurological deficits.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the finding absent on physical examination at a tertiary hospital after 4 months of progressive weakness following her single semaglutide dose was synovitis.
target: synovitis

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) was given at 2 g/kg, split over 4 days, due to her persistent weakness and severe features.
fact: The patient received intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) because of persistent weakness and severe features after pulse methylprednisolone at a dose of 26/kg
target: 26/kg

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 12 days after her discharge, she was hospitalised again for 10 days due to septic shock from pseudomonal urinary tract infection and was found to have a normal CK during that admission.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the subsequent hospitalization in which the patient was rehospitalized 12 days after discharge for 10 days with septic shock, the source of the septic shock was a pseudomonal urinary tract infection.
target: pseudomonal urinary tract infection

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 12 days after her discharge, she was hospitalised again for 10 days due to septic shock from pseudomonal urinary tract infection and was found to have a normal CK during that admission.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during her rehospitalisation 12 days after discharge for 10 days because of septic shock from a pseudomonal urinary tract infection, her creatine kinase (CK) was normal CK.
target: normal CK

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was followed up as an outpatient several times with continued improvement in her functional status and overall health, as well as persistently normal CK levels.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the patient's outpatient follow-up after her hospitalizations for immune-mediated necrotising myopathy and persistently normal CK levels, the reported improving aspect of her recovery was her functional status and overall health.
target: her functional status and overall health

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to a combination of cost and her overall improvement off semaglutide, she did not receive any additional IVIG outside of her initial course during her hospitalisation.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after her initial hospital treatment with IVIG, her overall improvement off semaglutide contributed to her not receiving any additional IVIG outside that first course because of cost.
target: cost

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to a combination of cost and her overall improvement off semaglutide, she did not receive any additional IVIG outside of her initial course during her hospitalisation.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", because of cost and her improvement after stopping semaglutide, she did not receive any additional IVIG.
target: any additional IVIG

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was last seen in the outpatient setting 10 months after her initial evaluation and treatment initiation and had regained her baseline functional status, off immunosuppression for 8 months.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient had regained her baseline functional status and was off immunosuppression for 8 months at her final outpatient follow-up; the interval from initial evaluation and treatment initiation was 10 months.
target: 10 months

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was last seen in the outpatient setting 10 months after her initial evaluation and treatment initiation and had regained her baseline functional status, off immunosuppression for 8 months.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient was last seen in the outpatient setting 10 months after her initial evaluation and treatment initiation, by which time she had regained her baseline functional status, and she had been off immunosuppression for 8 months.
target: 8 months

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her laboratory work-up was notable for elevated CK of 1237 U/L at evaluation, with a peak of 3992 U/L measured 1 week prior at the transferring hospital.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", after developing progressive weakness and dysphagia following a single semaglutide dose, her creatine kinase level at the time of evaluation was 12375 U/L.
target: 12375 U/L

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her laboratory work-up was notable for elevated CK of 1237 U/L at evaluation, with a peak of 3992 U/L measured 1 week prior at the transferring hospital.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient’s peak creatine kinase level at the outside hospital 1 week before her evaluation, when her laboratory work-up later showed CK 1237 U/L, was 39925 U/L.
target: 39925 U/L

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her AST was 191 U/L and ALT 165 U/L in the setting of elevated serum CK and history of fatty liver.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during evaluation for elevated serum creatine kinase in the setting of a history of fatty liver, when her AST was 191 U/L, her ALT was 165 U/L.
target: 165 U/L

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also had a myositis panel that was negative for SRP and HMGCR, as well as Jo-1, Pl-7, Pl-12, EJ, OJ, Mi-2, MDA-5, TIF1-y, NXP-2 and cN-1A autoantibodies.
fact: During evaluation for progressive proximal weakness, dysphagia, and elevated creatine kinase after a single semaglutide dose, the patient's myositis panel was negative for the IMNM-associated autoantibodies SRP and HMGCR.
target: SRP and HMGCR

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She also had a myositis panel that was negative for SRP and HMGCR, as well as Jo-1, Pl-7, Pl-12, EJ, OJ, Mi-2, MDA-5, TIF1-y, NXP-2 and cN-1A autoantibodies.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during her evaluation the patient’s myositis panel was negative for SRP and HMGCR, and the other autoantibodies on that panel that were also reported as negative were Jo-1, Pl-7, Pl-12, EJ, OJ, Mi-2, MDA-5, TIF1-y, NXP-2 and cN-1A autoantibodies.
target: Jo-1, Pl-7, Pl-12, EJ, OJ, Mi-2, MDA-5, TIF1-y, NXP-2 and cN-1A autoantibodies

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, she also had a HS-Troponin elevation of 62 pg/mL (normal range ≤53 pg/mL) and a pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (proBNP) of 4358 pg/mL (normal range: 0–125 pg/mL).
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the patient's evaluation for progressive proximal weakness and dysphagia, her pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (proBNP) level was 4358 pg/mL.
target: 4358 pg/mL

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notable imaging included an MRI of bilateral femurs, echocardiogram, cardiac MRI, liver ultrasound with Doppler, high resolution CT chest and MRI abdomen.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the work-up included MRI of the bilateral femurs, echocardiogram, cardiac MRI, liver ultrasound with Doppler, MRI abdomen, and high resolution CT chest.
target: high resolution CT chest

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: MRI of bilateral femurs revealed mild, symmetric bilateral muscular oedema most evident in the proximal vastus lateralis muscles and distal quadriceps muscles, as well as subcutaneous oedema along the lateral aspect of the bilateral thighs (figure 2).
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", MRI of both femurs showed mild, symmetric bilateral muscle oedema in the thighs, with the most evident oedema in "the proximal vastus lateralis muscles and distal quadriceps muscles".
target: "the proximal vastus lateralis muscles and distal quadriceps muscles"

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: MRI of bilateral femurs revealed mild, symmetric bilateral muscular oedema most evident in the proximal vastus lateralis muscles and distal quadriceps muscles, as well as subcutaneous oedema along the lateral aspect of the bilateral thighs (figure 2).
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", MRI of both femurs during evaluation of her progressive proximal weakness showed mild symmetric muscular oedema in the vastus lateralis and quadriceps muscles, as well as oedema along the lateral aspect of both thighs, namely "subcutaneous oedema".
target: "subcutaneous oedema"

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Echocardiogram was notable for an estimated left ventricular ejection fraction of 65%–70% and a right ventricular systolic pressure of 46 mm Hg.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the patient’s work-up after she developed progressive weakness and dysphagia following semaglutide exposure, the echocardiogram reported a right ventricular systolic pressure of 46 mm Hg.
target: 46 mm Hg

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A cardiac MRI was also obtained, which showed mild hypokinesis of the mid-anteroseptal and anterior wall associated with myocardial oedema and no definite late gadolinium enhancement, potentially related to myocardial inflammation/early myocarditis or potentially focal stress-induced cardiomyopathy.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a cardiac MRI obtained during the patient’s evaluation after she developed progressive weakness and elevated creatine kinase following semaglutide exposure showed "mild hypokinesis".
target: "mild hypokinesis"

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A cardiac MRI was also obtained, which showed mild hypokinesis of the mid-anteroseptal and anterior wall associated with myocardial oedema and no definite late gadolinium enhancement, potentially related to myocardial inflammation/early myocarditis or potentially focal stress-induced cardiomyopathy.
fact: The cardiac MRI obtained during the patient’s evaluation showed mild hypokinesis of the mid-anteroseptal and anterior wall with myocardial oedema and was notable for "no definite late gadolinium enhancement".
target: "no definite late gadolinium enhancement"

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There was no significant myocardial scarring or infarction, nor significant valvular dysfunction.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a cardiac MRI obtained during the work-up of a woman in her 60s with progressive weakness after semaglutide exposure showed no significant myocardial scarring or infarction and no significant valvular dysfunction.
target: valvular dysfunction

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her high-resolution CT chest was negative for interstitial lung disease and lymphadenopathy.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient’s high-resolution CT chest was negative for interstitial lung disease and also showed no lymphadenopathy.
target: lymphadenopathy

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: MRI of her abdomen demonstrated steatotic hepatomegaly, but otherwise unremarkable and with no lymphadenopathy.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the evaluation of her progressive weakness and elevated creatine kinase, abdominal MRI demonstrated steatotic hepatomegaly.
target: steatotic hepatomegaly

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: MRI of her abdomen demonstrated steatotic hepatomegaly, but otherwise unremarkable and with no lymphadenopathy.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the work-up for progressive weakness after a single semaglutide dose, the patient's abdominal MRI showed steatotic hepatomegaly but was otherwise unremarkable, with no lymphadenopathy.
target: lymphadenopathy

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A liver biopsy, performed during her admission, demonstrated multiple cores of hepatic tissue with small and large droplet macrovesicular steatosis encompassing approximately 70% of the submitted hepatic parenchyma with no significant portal inflammation nor interface hepatitis.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a liver biopsy performed during the patient’s admission showed small and large droplet macrovesicular steatosis encompassing approximately 70%.
target: 70%

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A liver biopsy, performed during her admission, demonstrated multiple cores of hepatic tissue with small and large droplet macrovesicular steatosis encompassing approximately 70% of the submitted hepatic parenchyma with no significant portal inflammation nor interface hepatitis.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", during the patient’s admission for progressive weakness after semaglutide exposure, the liver biopsy showed macrovesicular steatosis involving about 70% of the hepatic parenchyma and, besides the lack of significant portal inflammation, the absence of interface hepatitis.
target: interface hepatitis

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These findings were consistent with her history of hepatosteatosis, with mild progression of her underlying liver disease to NAFLD Activity Score grade 5/8, stage 1.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a repeat liver biopsy performed during her admission after she had been found to have hepatosteatosis showed mild progression of her underlying liver disease to "stage 1".
target: "stage 1"

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A muscle biopsy of the right vastus lateralis demonstrated dispersed necrotic and regenerating muscle fibres (figure 3A,B), and immunohistochemistry stains revealed acid phosphatase (figure 3D) and cluster of Differentiation-68 (CD68) staining, a macrophage marker, with myophagocytosis (figure 4B).
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a muscle biopsy of the right vastus lateralis showed necrotic and regenerating muscle fibres, and immunohistochemistry staining from that biopsy identified cluster of Differentiation-68 (CD68).
target: cluster of Differentiation-68 (CD68)

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There was also a membrane attack complex positive stain on necrotising and non-necrotising myofibres (figure 4C), consistent with an inflammatory response.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a muscle biopsy from the right vastus lateralis showed a stain that was positive on both necrotising and non-necrotising myofibres, consistent with an inflammatory response, and this stain was the membrane attack complex.
target: membrane attack complex

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There was also a membrane attack complex positive stain on necrotising and non-necrotising myofibres (figure 4C), consistent with an inflammatory response.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient’s right vastus lateralis muscle biopsy showed a membrane attack complex positive stain on necrotising and non-necrotising myofibres, which was consistent with an inflammatory response.
target: an inflammatory response

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There were also rare CD3, a T-cell marker positive cells (figure 4A), and perivascular inflammatory cells (figure 3C).
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a right vastus lateralis muscle biopsy showed necrotic and regenerating fibres with inflammatory findings, and the biopsy finding was rare CD3.
target: rare CD3

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There were also rare CD3, a T-cell marker positive cells (figure 4A), and perivascular inflammatory cells (figure 3C).
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", a right vastus lateralis muscle biopsy performed after the patient developed progressive proximal weakness, dysphagia, and an elevated creatine kinase described rare CD3-positive T cells and perivascular inflammatory cells.
target: perivascular inflammatory cells

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her initial symptoms included gastrointestinal side effects and renal failure suspected secondary to hypovolaemia.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient developed symptoms soon after her first and only semaglutide dose, and her initial symptoms were thought to include renal failure suspected secondary to hypovolaemia and "gastrointestinal side effects".
target: "gastrointestinal side effects"

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her initial symptoms included gastrointestinal side effects and renal failure suspected secondary to hypovolaemia.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the patient's renal failure, which developed shortly after her first semaglutide dose in the setting of gastrointestinal side effects, was suspected to be secondary to "hypovolaemia".
target: "hypovolaemia"

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to a combination of cost considerations and sustained improvement off semaglutide, she did not receive any additional IVIG beyond the initial course during her hospitalisation.
fact: In the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", because of cost considerations and sustained improvement off semaglutide, the patient did not receive any further courses of additional IVIG.
target: additional IVIG

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to a combination of cost considerations and sustained improvement off semaglutide, she did not receive any additional IVIG beyond the initial course during her hospitalisation.
fact: In the case report, the patient later showed sustained improvement after treatment and therefore did not receive additional IVIG beyond her initial hospital course while she was off semaglutide.
target: semaglutide

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the present case, the patient’s clinical course is more consistent with IMNM than rhabdomyolysis.
fact: According to the case report "Immune-mediated necrotising myopathy following semaglutide treatment: a contributing factor?", the alternative condition considered less consistent with her clinical course than IMNM was "rhabdomyolysis".
target: "rhabdomyolysis"

