[1]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", Large Language Models (LLMs) are described as having a remarkable ability to tackle
target:  challenging and unseen reasoning problems.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", Large Language Models (LLMs) are described as having a remarkable ability to tackle challenging and unseen reasoning problems.

[2]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", Large Language Models (LLMs), with their ability to tackle challenging and unseen reasoning problems, are said to hold immense potential for
target:  tabular learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", Large Language Models (LLMs), with their ability to tackle challenging and unseen reasoning problems, are said to hold immense potential for tabular learning.

[3]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the generated features help infer, with a simple downstream machine learning model such as linear regression in the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework,
target:  class likelihood.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the generated features help infer, with a simple downstream machine learning model such as linear regression in the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework, class likelihood.

[4]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the simple downstream machine learning model given as an example for inferring class likelihood from the generated features is
target:  linear regression.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the simple downstream machine learning model given as an example for inferring class likelihood from the generated features is linear regression.

[5]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the generated features are used to infer class likelihood with a simple downstream machine learning model such as linear regression, the result is
target:  high performance few-shot learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the generated features are used to infer class likelihood with a simple downstream machine learning model such as linear regression, the result is high performance few-shot learning.

[6]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", at inference time, after the features have been discovered, the proposed `\textsf{FeatLLM}` framework uses
target:  this simple predictive model with the discovered features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", at inference time, after the features have been discovered, the proposed `\textsf{FeatLLM}` framework uses this simple predictive model with the discovered features.

[7]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", at inference time, the proposed FeatLLM framework uses
target:  this simple predictive model with the discovered features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", at inference time, the proposed FeatLLM framework uses this simple predictive model with the discovered features.

[8]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", compared to existing LLM-based approaches, \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need, for each sample at inference time, to
target:  send queries to the LLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", compared to existing LLM-based approaches, \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need, for each sample at inference time, to send queries to the LLM.

[9]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to send queries to the LLM for each sample at
target:  inference time.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to send queries to the LLM for each sample at inference time.

[10]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework merely requires
target:  API-level access.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework merely requires API-level access.

[11]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework overcomes
target:  prompt size limitations.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework overcomes prompt size limitations.

[12]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} generates
target:  high-quality rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} generates high-quality rules.

[13]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} outperforms alternatives such as TabLLM and STUNT by an average of
target:  10\%.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} outperforms alternatives such as TabLLM and STUNT by an average of 10\%.

[14]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, the alternatives specifically mentioned as being outperformed by \textsf{FeatLLM} are
target:  TabLLM and STUNT.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, the alternatives specifically mentioned as being outperformed by \textsf{FeatLLM} are TabLLM and STUNT.

[15]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive abilities to generate, for previously unseen tasks without requiring task-specific fine-tuning,
target:  suitable responses.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive abilities to generate, for previously unseen tasks without requiring task-specific fine-tuning, suitable responses.

[16]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors say Large Language Models can generate suitable responses for previously unseen tasks without requiring
target:  task-specific fine-tuning.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors say Large Language Models can generate suitable responses for previously unseen tasks without requiring task-specific fine-tuning.

[17]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in many areas, the rich prior knowledge of LLMs can substitute the need for
target:  expert domain knowledge.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in many areas, the rich prior knowledge of LLMs can substitute the need for expert domain knowledge.

[18]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the rich prior knowledge of LLMs plays a crucial role in the automation of the application involving conversation known as
target:  dialogue analysis.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the rich prior knowledge of LLMs plays a crucial role in the automation of the application involving conversation known as dialogue analysis.

[19]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", besides dialogue analysis, the other application mentioned as being automated with the help of LLMs' prior knowledge is
target:  program repair
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", besides dialogue analysis, the other application mentioned as being automated with the help of LLMs' prior knowledge is program repair

[20]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prompts can incorporate
target:  a task description and few examples.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prompts can incorporate a task description and few examples.

[21]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by incorporating a task description and few examples into prompts, LLMs can understand the task context and attend to
target:  important features and examples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by incorporating a task description and few examples into prompts, LLMs can understand the task context and attend to important features and examples.

[22]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the demonstrated capability of LLMs that highlights their potential to perform as an expert feature engineer is to
target:  analyze data.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the demonstrated capability of LLMs that highlights their potential to perform as an expert feature engineer is to analyze data.

[23]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that LLMs can analyze data, highlighting their potential to perform as
target:  an expert feature engineer.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that LLMs can analyze data, highlighting their potential to perform as an expert feature engineer.

[24]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the utilization of LLMs' prior knowledge and reasoning capabilities has been extended to
target:  the domain of tabular learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the utilization of LLMs' prior knowledge and reasoning capabilities has been extended to the domain of tabular learning.

[25]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", disease prediction tasks can benefit from knowledge about groups at increased risk of certain diseases, such as
target:  older individuals.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", disease prediction tasks can benefit from knowledge about groups at increased risk of certain diseases, such as older individuals.

[26]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in recent LLM-based tabular learning works, task and feature descriptions are defined in the form of
target:  natural language.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in recent LLM-based tabular learning works, task and feature descriptions are defined in the form of natural language.

[27]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in recent works on tabular learning that define task and feature descriptions in natural language and serialize the data, the serialized data is fed into
target:  an LLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in recent works on tabular learning that define task and feature descriptions in natural language and serialize the data, the serialized data is fed into an LLM.

[28]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after recent works define task and feature descriptions in natural language, serialize the tabular data, and feed it into an LLM, the approach often used next besides parameter-efficient fine-tuning is
target:  in-context learning.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after recent works define task and feature descriptions in natural language, serialize the tabular data, and feed it into an LLM, the approach often used next besides parameter-efficient fine-tuning is in-context learning.

[29]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after task and feature descriptions are defined in natural language, the data are serialized and fed into an LLM. The kind of fine-tuning often used as an alternative to in-context learning is
target:  parameter-efficient fine-tuning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after task and feature descriptions are defined in natural language, the data are serialized and fed into an LLM. The kind of fine-tuning often used as an alternative to in-context learning is parameter-efficient fine-tuning.

[30]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prior knowledge provided by LLMs has been shown to outperform, in low-shot regimes,
target:  conventional tabular learning baselines.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prior knowledge provided by LLMs has been shown to outperform, in low-shot regimes, conventional tabular learning baselines.

[31]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prior knowledge provided by LLMs has proven effective, outperforming conventional tabular learning baselines, in
target:  low-shot regimes.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prior knowledge provided by LLMs has proven effective, outperforming conventional tabular learning baselines, in low-shot regimes.

[32]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for end-to-end predictions in LLM-based tabular learning, the number of LLM inferences required per sample, making the method computationally expensive, is
target:  at least one
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for end-to-end predictions in LLM-based tabular learning, the number of LLM inferences required per sample, making the method computationally expensive, is at least one

[33]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", requiring at least one LLM inference per sample makes end-to-end predictions
target:  computationally expensive.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", requiring at least one LLM inference per sample makes end-to-end predictions computationally expensive.

[34]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most methods require
target:  fine-tuning the LLM.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most methods require fine-tuning the LLM.

[35]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most methods require adapting the LLM to achieve high accuracy, making them infeasible for models without accessible training codebases or
target:  tuning APIs.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most methods require adapting the LLM to achieve high accuracy, making them infeasible for models without accessible training codebases or tuning APIs.

[36]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recently proposed top-performance LLMs only permit limited access via
target:  inference APIs.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recently proposed top-performance LLMs only permit limited access via inference APIs.

[37]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most approaches are not suitable when the number of features in tabular data makes the serialized text long, resulting in
target:  lengthy prompts.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most approaches are not suitable when the number of features in tabular data makes the serialized text long, resulting in lengthy prompts.

[38]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most approaches that are not suitable for lengthy prompts become infeasible or experience a decline in performance
target:  when the number of features in tabular data grows
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most approaches that are not suitable for lengthy prompts become infeasible or experience a decline in performance when the number of features in tabular data grows

[39]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", as the number of features in tabular data grows and the serialized text length and prompt become long, most approaches reach a point where the method
target:  turns infeasible or experiences a decline in performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", as the number of features in tabular data grows and the serialized text length and prompt become long, most approaches reach a point where the method turns infeasible or experiences a decline in performance.

[40]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", limited inference API access and difficulty handling lengthy prompts pose
target:  fundamental challenges.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", limited inference API access and difficulty handling lengthy prompts pose fundamental challenges.

[41]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors assign LLMs the role of
target:  feature engineering.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors assign LLMs the role of feature engineering.

[42]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the proposed approach that assigns large language models the role of feature engineering instead of end-to-end prediction, they propose a more efficient way to utilize
target:  their prior knowledge.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the proposed approach that assigns large language models the role of feature engineering instead of end-to-end prediction, they propose a more efficient way to utilize their prior knowledge.

[43]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the proposed FeatLLM framework for feature engineering, for the task of predicting a particular disease, the LLM can directly infer and generate the conditions that identify the disease as
target:  rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the proposed FeatLLM framework for feature engineering, for the task of predicting a particular disease, the LLM can directly infer and generate the conditions that identify the disease as rules.

[44]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the items used in the description of the \textsf{FeatLLM} in-context learning framework to create new features that can replace existing ones in solving tasks are
target:  The criteria (or rules).
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the items used in the description of the \textsf{FeatLLM} in-context learning framework to create new features that can replace existing ones in solving tasks are The criteria (or rules).

[45]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", within the proposed in-context learning framework FeatLLM, the criteria or rules inferred by the LLM are used to create
target:  new features
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", within the proposed in-context learning framework FeatLLM, the criteria or rules inferred by the LLM are used to create new features

[46]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that once the features are discovered, inference no longer needs
target:  a complex machine learning model.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that once the features are discovered, inference no longer needs a complex machine learning model.

[47]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", according to the authors, features can be extracted without the need for model training when leveraging the in-context learning ability of LLMs using
target:  example demonstrations.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", according to the authors, features can be extracted without the need for model training when leveraging the in-context learning ability of LLMs using example demonstrations.

[48]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors discuss using techniques from ensemble methods to address the challenge of excessive prompt size when engineering new features. The technique they mention is
target:  feature bagging.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors discuss using techniques from ensemble methods to address the challenge of excessive prompt size when engineering new features. The technique they mention is feature bagging.

[49]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the challenge that can be mitigated by employing techniques from ensemble methods, such as feature bagging, when using in-context learning to extract features from prompts is
target:  excessive prompt size.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the challenge that can be mitigated by employing techniques from ensemble methods, such as feature bagging, when using in-context learning to extract features from prompts is excessive prompt size.

[50]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the first sub-task in the two-part input-prompt structure that \textsf{FeatLLM} uses for engineering new features, before it derives decisive rules from the few-shot examples, is
target:  understanding the problem and inferring the relationship between features and targets.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the first sub-task in the two-part input-prompt structure that \textsf{FeatLLM} uses for engineering new features, before it derives decisive rules from the few-shot examples, is understanding the problem and inferring the relationship between features and targets.

[51]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM uses its second sub-task to derive, from the knowledge in the previous step and few-shot examples,
target:  decisive rules.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM uses its second sub-task to derive, from the knowledge in the previous step and few-shot examples, decisive rules.

[52]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the decisive rules derived in \textsf{FeatLLM}'s second sub-task are intended to
target:  distinguish classes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the decisive rules derived in \textsf{FeatLLM}'s second sub-task are intended to distinguish classes.

[53]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe the \textsf{FeatLLM} structured reasoning approach for feature engineering as leading the LLMs to filter out
target:  uninformative features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe the \textsf{FeatLLM} structured reasoning approach for feature engineering as leading the LLMs to filter out uninformative features.

[54]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe a structured reasoning approach in FeatLLM that helps the LLMs filter out uninformative features for
target:  rule extraction.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe a structured reasoning approach in FeatLLM that helps the LLMs filter out uninformative features for rule extraction.

[55]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the deduced rules are applied to the data and then transformed into a binary feature indicating whether the samples adhere to each rule by
target:  parsed them as program code.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the deduced rules are applied to the data and then transformed into a binary feature indicating whether the samples adhere to each rule by parsed them as program code.

[56]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the binary features generated by applying the deduced rules to the data are used to fit a model that estimates class probabilities, specifically
target:  a model with low complexity.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the binary features generated by applying the deduced rules to the data are used to fit a model that estimates class probabilities, specifically a model with low complexity.

[57]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after the data are transformed into binary features based on the deduced rules, the low-complexity model estimates from these new features
target:  class probabilities.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after the data are transformed into binary features based on the deduced rules, the low-complexity model estimates from these new features class probabilities.

[58]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the approach employed to further improve robustness is
target:  an ensemble approach.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the approach employed to further improve robustness is an ensemble approach.

[59]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the robustness is further improved by employing an ensemble approach that repeatedly generates features in conjunction with
target:  feature bagging.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the robustness is further improved by employing an ensemble approach that repeatedly generates features in conjunction with feature bagging.

[60]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", appropriately adjusting the number of features and samples chosen in bagging can mitigate
target:  the challenge of excessive prompt size.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", appropriately adjusting the number of features and samples chosen in bagging can mitigate the challenge of excessive prompt size.

[61]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ feature-bagging approach mitigates the challenge of excessive prompt size by using
target:  features and samples.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ feature-bagging approach mitigates the challenge of excessive prompt size by using features and samples.

[62]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the sentence describing \textsf{FeatLLM}'s low inference cost and feasibility for various real-world problems states that it is free from
target:  training constraints.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the sentence describing \textsf{FeatLLM}'s low inference cost and feasibility for various real-world problems states that it is free from training constraints.

[63]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} yields
target:  low inference cost.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} yields low inference cost.

[64]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} in low-shot regimes on
target:  13 different tabular datasets.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} in low-shot regimes on 13 different tabular datasets.

[65]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} across the 13 tabular datasets in
target:  low-shot regimes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} across the 13 tabular datasets in low-shot regimes.

[66]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when evaluating FeatLLM on low-shot tabular datasets, the authors say that LLMs proficiently utilize knowledge from the data in addition to
target:  prior knowledge.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when evaluating FeatLLM on low-shot tabular datasets, the authors say that LLMs proficiently utilize knowledge from the data in addition to prior knowledge.

[67]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that large language models proficiently utilize prior knowledge along with
target:  the knowledge from the data.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that large language models proficiently utilize prior knowledge along with the knowledge from the data.

[68]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by proficiently utilizing both prior knowledge and the knowledge from the data, LLMs extract
target:  high-quality features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by proficiently utilizing both prior knowledge and the knowledge from the data, LLMs extract high-quality features.

[69]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed framework outperforms, across various settings in the low-shot evaluation on 13 tabular datasets,
target:  contemporary few-shot learning baselines.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed framework outperforms, across various settings in the low-shot evaluation on 13 tabular datasets, contemporary few-shot learning baselines.

[70]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors report that their framework outperforms contemporary few-shot learning baselines in
target:  various settings.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors report that their framework outperforms contemporary few-shot learning baselines in various settings.

[71]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the code for the FeatLLM framework is released via an
target:  anonymized GitHub link
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the code for the FeatLLM framework is released via an anonymized GitHub link

[72]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the anonymized GitHub link given for the released code is
target:  https://github.com/Sungwon-Han/FeatLLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the anonymized GitHub link given for the released code is https://github.com/Sungwon-Han/FeatLLM.

[73]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the advancement of few-shot learning has enabled the extraction of
target:  generalizable representations.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the advancement of few-shot learning has enabled the extraction of generalizable representations.

[74]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the advancement of few-shot learning enabled the extraction of generalizable representations from data even with
target:  minimal labeling costs.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the advancement of few-shot learning enabled the extraction of generalizable representations from data even with minimal labeling costs.

[75]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", few-shot learning initially focused on
target:  image data.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", few-shot learning initially focused on image data.

[76]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after initially focusing on image data, few-shot learning has proven strong generalizability across
target:  text, audio, and more recently, tabular data.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after initially focusing on image data, few-shot learning has proven strong generalizability across text, audio, and more recently, tabular data.

[77]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", learning from a small number of labeled samples presents the risk of
target:  learning spurious correlations.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", learning from a small number of labeled samples presents the risk of learning spurious correlations.

[78]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent efforts have employed, alongside domain-specific prior knowledge and to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training,
target:  additional sources of information.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent efforts have employed, alongside domain-specific prior knowledge and to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training, additional sources of information.

[79]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent efforts have introduced prior knowledge to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training in few-shot tabular learning, namely
target:  domain-specific prior knowledge.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent efforts have introduced prior knowledge to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training in few-shot tabular learning, namely domain-specific prior knowledge.

[80]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the context of using large quantities of unlabeled datasets for semi-supervised learning or obtaining good model initialization for few-shot tabular learning, good model initialization is sought through
target:  task-agnostic unsupervised pre-training.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the context of using large quantities of unlabeled datasets for semi-supervised learning or obtaining good model initialization for few-shot tabular learning, good model initialization is sought through task-agnostic unsupervised pre-training.

[81]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of unsupervised objectives for tabular data, besides masking or corrupting part of the data and using a reconstruction objective, data augmentation can be used to apply
target:  contrastive learning objectives.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of unsupervised objectives for tabular data, besides masking or corrupting part of the data and using a reconstruction objective, data augmentation can be used to apply contrastive learning objectives.

[82]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the property that makes it challenging to find universally applicable augmentations for tabular data is
target:  the heterogeneous nature of tabular data.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the property that makes it challenging to find universally applicable augmentations for tabular data is the heterogeneous nature of tabular data.

[83]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", although augmentation-based unsupervised objectives have been explored for tabular data, these strategies have not been notably effective in
target:  few-shot settings.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", although augmentation-based unsupervised objectives have been explored for tabular data, these strategies have not been notably effective in few-shot settings.

[84]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent work has proposed training models on
target:  a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent work has proposed training models on a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task.

[85]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after models are trained on a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task, the approach applied to the target task is
target:  transfer learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after models are trained on a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task, the approach applied to the target task is transfer learning.

[86]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TransTab trains transformer-based models to learn semantic relationships between
target:  columns.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TransTab trains transformer-based models to learn semantic relationships between columns.

[87]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TransTab’s transformer-based models learn semantic relationships between columns, rather than relying only on table values, through
target:  column names.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TransTab’s transformer-based models learn semantic relationships between columns, rather than relying only on table values, through column names.

[88]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", zero-shot or few-shot inference for new tabular tasks has been facilitated by
target:  knowledge extracted from various tables and columns.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", zero-shot or few-shot inference for new tabular tasks has been facilitated by knowledge extracted from various tables and columns.

[89]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the knowledge extracted from various tables and columns has facilitated, for new tabular tasks,
target:  zero-shot or few-shot inference
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the knowledge extracted from various tables and columns has facilitated, for new tabular tasks, zero-shot or few-shot inference

[90]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabPFN creates synthetic data for pre-training a Bayesian neural network by mixing
target:  different types of distributions.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabPFN creates synthetic data for pre-training a Bayesian neural network by mixing different types of distributions.

[91]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabPFN mixes different types of distributions to create synthetic data that is used to pre-train
target:  a Bayesian neural network.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabPFN mixes different types of distributions to create synthetic data that is used to pre-train a Bayesian neural network.

[92]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after pre-training TabPFN, the samples of the target task that are input for inference without further training are
target:  both training and test samples.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after pre-training TabPFN, the samples of the target task that are input for inference without further training are both training and test samples.

[93]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of TabPFN after pre-training, inference on the target task is performed by inputting both training and test samples without
target:  further training.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of TabPFN after pre-training, inference on the target task is performed by inputting both training and test samples without further training.

[94]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of, in the described few-shot setting,
target:  traditional tree-based approaches
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of, in the described few-shot setting, traditional tree-based approaches

[95]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of traditional tree-based approaches and was proved to be beneficial in
target:  few-shot settings.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of traditional tree-based approaches and was proved to be beneficial in few-shot settings.

[96]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", another promising approach to leverage prior knowledge is described as
target:  the incorporation of large language models (LLMs).
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", another promising approach to leverage prior knowledge is described as the incorporation of large language models (LLMs).

[97]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the kind of tasks that LLMs, trained on extensive and diverse text corpora, have demonstrated the ability to generalize to are
target:  unseen tasks.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the kind of tasks that LLMs, trained on extensive and diverse text corpora, have demonstrated the ability to generalize to are unseen tasks.

[98]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", LLMs trained on extensive and diverse text corpora have demonstrated the ability to generalize to unseen tasks, proving their utility across
target:  various domains.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", LLMs trained on extensive and diverse text corpora have demonstrated the ability to generalize to unseen tasks, proving their utility across various domains.

[99]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent studies have attempted to leverage for tabular learning
target:  the rich prior knowledge encapsulated by LLMs.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent studies have attempted to leverage for tabular learning the rich prior knowledge encapsulated by LLMs.

[100]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent studies typically propose converting tabular data before feeding it into the input prompts of LLMs by
target:  serializing tabular data into text.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent studies typically propose converting tabular data before feeding it into the input prompts of LLMs by serializing tabular data into text.

[101]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after recent studies serialize tabular data into text, they feed the resulting text into
target:  the input prompts of LLMs
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after recent studies serialize tabular data into text, they feed the resulting text into the input prompts of LLMs

[102]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the input prompts include
target:  tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the input prompts include tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions.

[103]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by including tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions in the input prompts, these models can infer relationships between
target:  tasks and features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by including tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions in the input prompts, these models can infer relationships between tasks and features.

[104]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", one parameter-efficient tuning technique mentioned as one way to specifically train models for few-shot tabular learning is
target:  LoRA.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", one parameter-efficient tuning technique mentioned as one way to specifically train models for few-shot tabular learning is LoRA.

[105]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the other parameter-efficient tuning technique mentioned alongside LoRA for specifically training models is
target:  IA3.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the other parameter-efficient tuning technique mentioned alongside LoRA for specifically training models is IA3.

[106]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in-context learning is used in the few-shot tabular learning setting without training the model by
target:  adding few-shot example demonstrations to the prompts.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in-context learning is used in the few-shot tabular learning setting without training the model by adding few-shot example demonstrations to the prompts.

[107]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors discuss prior methods for improving few-shot tabular learning, including parameter-efficient tuning and in-context learning. The requirement of these methods that poses challenges for application in industrial domains is to
target:  always pass inference through the LLM
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors discuss prior methods for improving few-shot tabular learning, including parameter-efficient tuning and in-context learning. The requirement of these methods that poses challenges for application in industrial domains is to always pass inference through the LLM

[108]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", despite the effectiveness of prior methods for improving few-shot tabular learning, the requirement to always pass inference through the LLM poses challenges for application in
target:  industrial domains.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", despite the effectiveness of prior methods for improving few-shot tabular learning, the requirement to always pass inference through the LLM poses challenges for application in industrial domains.

[109]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the approach targets the LLM to directly infer for each class
target:  the conditions or rules.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the approach targets the LLM to directly infer for each class the conditions or rules.

[110]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the LLM directly infers the conditions or rules associated with
target:  each class.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the LLM directly infers the conditions or rules associated with each class.

[111]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM parses the generated rules into the form needed to create new features and make predictions without passing through the LLM, namely
target:  the program code.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM parses the generated rules into the form needed to create new features and make predictions without passing through the LLM, namely the program code.

[112]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} parses generated rules into program code to create new features for prediction, allowing predictions to be made without needing to
target:  pass through the LLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} parses generated rules into program code to create new features for prediction, allowing predictions to be made without needing to pass through the LLM.

[113]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} leverages prior knowledge and information from few-shot samples to extract rules using
target:  in-context learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} leverages prior knowledge and information from few-shot samples to extract rules using in-context learning.

[114]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in FeatLLM, after the extracted rules are parsed through an LLM, the indicators for whether each rule is satisfied are represented as
target:  new binary features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in FeatLLM, after the extracted rules are parsed through an LLM, the indicators for whether each rule is satisfied are represented as new binary features.

[115]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the newly created binary features, together with non-negative trainable weights, are used to estimate the likelihood of each class via the
target:  dot product operation.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the newly created binary features, together with non-negative trainable weights, are used to estimate the likelihood of each class via the dot product operation.

[116]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the newly created binary features are fed into a dot product to estimate the likelihood of each class using
target:  non-negative trainable weights.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the newly created binary features are fed into a dot product to estimate the likelihood of each class using non-negative trainable weights.

[117]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the problem formulation, the tabular dataset contains
target:  $N$ labeled samples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the problem formulation, the tabular dataset contains $N$ labeled samples.

[118]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the notation used for the tabular dataset of $N$ labeled samples is
target:  $\mathcal{D}$.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the notation used for the tabular dataset of $N$ labeled samples is $\mathcal{D}$.

[119]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the tabular dataset formulation with $d$ input features, the natural language feature names are denoted by
target:  $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the tabular dataset formulation with $d$ input features, the natural language feature names are denoted by $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$.

[120]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the problem formulation for a tabular dataset $\mathcal{D} = \{(\mathbf{x}^i, \mathbf{y}^i)\}_{i=1}^{N}$, each input $\mathbf{x}^i$ is described as a
target:  $d$-dimensional vector.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the problem formulation for a tabular dataset $\mathcal{D} = \{(\mathbf{x}^i, \mathbf{y}^i)\}_{i=1}^{N}$, each input $\mathbf{x}^i$ is described as a $d$-dimensional vector.

[121]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", besides the natural language feature names $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$ associated with the $d$ input features of the tabular dataset $\mathcal{D}$, the features are also provided separately with
target:  their definitions.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", besides the natural language feature names $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$ associated with the $d$ input features of the tabular dataset $\mathcal{D}$, the features are also provided separately with their definitions.

[122]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", under the classification setup, the label $\mathbf{y}^i$ is one of
target:  the predefined set of classes.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", under the classification setup, the label $\mathbf{y}^i$ is one of the predefined set of classes.

[123]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the $k$-shot learning experiments, the model is trained by randomly sampling
target:  $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the $k$-shot learning experiments, the model is trained by randomly sampling $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples.

[124]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the $k$-shot learning experiments in which only $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples are randomly sampled, those sampled labeled examples are used to
target:  train the model.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the $k$-shot learning experiments in which only $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples are randomly sampled, those sampled labeled examples are used to train the model.

[125]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors guide the problem-solving process to mimic how an expert human might approach a tabular learning task in order to help the LLM extract rules, the LLM is guided to use
target:  a more accurate reasoning path.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors guide the problem-solving process to mimic how an expert human might approach a tabular learning task in order to help the LLM extract rules, the LLM is guided to use a more accurate reasoning path.

[126]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to enable the LLM to extract rules based on a more accurate reasoning path, the authors guide the problem-solving process to mimic how a tabular learning task might be approached by
target:  an expert human.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to enable the LLM to extract rules based on a more accurate reasoning path, the authors guide the problem-solving process to mimic how a tabular learning task might be approached by an expert human.

[127]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the basic information description includes the task to be solved, descriptions of features, example demonstrations, and
target:  label information.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the basic information description includes the task to be solved, descriptions of features, example demonstrations, and label information.

[128]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the basic information description includes the description of the task to be solved with label information and the descriptions of features, as well as
target:  example demonstrations.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the basic information description includes the description of the task to be solved with label information and the descriptions of features, as well as example demonstrations.

[129]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the example demonstrations along with the few training samples that are serialized into text include
target:  their ground-truth labels.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the example demonstrations along with the few training samples that are serialized into text include their ground-truth labels.

[130]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors serialize the few training samples into text for the example demonstrations using
target:  the format used in previous studies.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors serialize the few training samples into text for the example demonstrations using the format used in previous studies.

[131]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the function name denoting the serialization of $(\mathbf{x}^i,\mathbf{y}^i, F)$ into text format for example demonstrations is
target:  Serialize.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the function name denoting the serialization of $(\mathbf{x}^i,\mathbf{y}^i, F)$ into text format for example demonstrations is Serialize.

[132]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the introductory sentence in the reasoning instruction is described as being similar to
target:  the chain-of-thought approach.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the introductory sentence in the reasoning instruction is described as being similar to the chain-of-thought approach.

[133]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the first step of the reasoning instruction, the LLM is encouraged to infer from the features and the task description
target:  the causal relationship or tendency.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the first step of the reasoning instruction, the LLM is encouraged to infer from the features and the task description the causal relationship or tendency.

[134]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the first step of the two-step reasoning process, rather than referring to example demonstrations, the LLM relies on
target:  general knowledge or common sense.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the first step of the two-step reasoning process, rather than referring to example demonstrations, the LLM relies on general knowledge or common sense.

[135]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the two-step reasoning process, to deduce rules for each class the LLM uses the information from the first step together with
target:  example demonstrations.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the two-step reasoning process, to deduce rules for each class the LLM uses the information from the first step together with example demonstrations.

[136]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the second step of the two-step reasoning process, the LLM uses example demonstrations and the information from the first step to deduce for each class
target:  rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the second step of the two-step reasoning process, the LLM uses example demonstrations and the information from the first step to deduce for each class rules.

[137]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the described two-step reasoning process for extracting rules from class labels prevents the model from identifying
target:  spurious correlations
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the described two-step reasoning process for extracting rules from class labels prevents the model from identifying spurious correlations

[138]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the described two-step reasoning process helps the model beyond avoiding spurious correlations in irrelevant columns by assisting it in focusing on
target:  more significant features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the described two-step reasoning process helps the model beyond avoiding spurious correlations in irrelevant columns by assisting it in focusing on more significant features.

[139]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when formulating rules, the LLM refers to the basic information description to avoid type mismatches by checking
target:  the type of each feature.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when formulating rules, the LLM refers to the basic information description to avoid type mismatches by checking the type of each feature.

[140]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors let the LLM refer to the type of each feature in the basic information description part when formulating rules in order
target:  to avoid type mismatches in rules
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors let the LLM refer to the type of each feature in the basic information description part when formulating rules in order to avoid type mismatches in rules

[141]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the prompt specifies guidelines for each answer class in the
target:  format for the response.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the prompt specifies guidelines for each answer class in the format for the response.

[142]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the prompt refers to the guidelines describing how each rule should be written as the
target:  format for the rule.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the prompt refers to the guidelines describing how each rule should be written as the format for the rule.

[143]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe specific instructions in the prompt that guide the LLM on how to structure its responses. Based on the feature type, these instructions allow the LLM to select
target:  the appropriate format.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe specific instructions in the prompt that guide the LLM on how to structure its responses. Based on the feature type, these instructions allow the LLM to select the appropriate format.

[144]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe instructions that guide the LLM on how to structure its responses. These instructions allow the LLM to select the appropriate format based on
target:  the feature type
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe instructions that guide the LLM on how to structure its responses. These instructions allow the LLM to select the appropriate format based on the feature type

[145]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the prompt includes guidelines on the required response format for each answer class and the structure each rule should follow, the LLM can, without additional guidance, combine rules using logical operators like AND or OR into
target:  multiple rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the prompt includes guidelines on the required response format for each answer class and the structure each rule should follow, the LLM can, without additional guidance, combine rules using logical operators like AND or OR into multiple rules.

[146]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when discussing the prompt guidance for the required response format and rule structure, the logical operators mentioned as examples of how the LLM can combine multiple rules without additional guidance are
target:  AND or OR.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when discussing the prompt guidance for the required response format and rule structure, the logical operators mentioned as examples of how the LLM can combine multiple rules without additional guidance are AND or OR.

[147]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", binary features are created for each entity, indicating whether a sample satisfies the rules associated with that
target:  class.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", binary features are created for each entity, indicating whether a sample satisfies the rules associated with that class.

[148]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the new binary features created for each class indicate
target:  whether the sample satisfies the rules associated with that class.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the new binary features created for each class indicate whether the sample satisfies the rules associated with that class.

[149]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", designing a parsing strategy is required for automatic feature generation from the rules produced by the LLM because
target:  the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", designing a parsing strategy is required for automatic feature generation from the rules produced by the LLM because the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language.

[150]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", because the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language, automatic feature generation requires
target:  designing a parsing strategy.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", because the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language, automatic feature generation requires designing a parsing strategy.

[151]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors constrain the formatting of responses and rules during rule generation, even though the LLM's output can include noisy syntactic changes, because it enables
target:  easier parsing.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors constrain the formatting of responses and rules during rule generation, even though the LLM's output can include noisy syntactic changes, because it enables easier parsing.

[152]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", even when the authors constrain the formatting of responses and rules during rule generation to make parsing easier, the LLM's output can still include
target:  noisy syntactic changes.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", even when the authors constrain the formatting of responses and rules during rule generation to make parsing easier, the LLM's output can still include noisy syntactic changes.

[153]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM alters expressions in generated rules during parsing, it might substitute the symbol "$>$" with
target:  greater than.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM alters expressions in generated rules during parsing, it might substitute the symbol "$>$" with greater than.

[154]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors address the challenges of parsing noisy text instead of building complex program code by leveraging
target:  the LLM itself.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors address the challenges of parsing noisy text instead of building complex program code by leveraging the LLM itself.

[155]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to address the challenges of parsing noisy text during rule generation, the authors say they leverage the LLM itself instead of building
target:  complex program code.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to address the challenges of parsing noisy text during rule generation, the authors say they leverage the LLM itself instead of building complex program code.

[156]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors use the LLM to help parse noisy text, it is good at understanding, despite syntactic changes in the text,
target:  the semantic meaning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors use the LLM to help parse noisy text, it is good at understanding, despite syntactic changes in the text, the semantic meaning.

[157]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", because it is trained on a code data corpus, the LLM can generate
target:  simple code.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", because it is trained on a code data corpus, the LLM can generate simple code.

[158]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the parsing prompt includes the function name, input/output descriptions, and
target:  inferred rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the parsing prompt includes the function name, input/output descriptions, and inferred rules.

[159]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after including the function name, input and output descriptions, and inferred rules in the prompt for parsing noisy text, the prompt is then input into
target:  the LLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after including the function name, input and output descriptions, and inferred rules in the prompt for parsing noisy text, the prompt is then input into the LLM.

[160]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the Python function used to execute the generated code to perform data conversion is
target:  exec().
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the Python function used to execute the generated code to perform data conversion is exec().

[161]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the generated code executed with Python’s `exec()` function is used to perform
target:  data conversion.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the generated code executed with Python’s `exec()` function is used to perform data conversion.

[162]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the simple method the authors use to measure the class likelihood of a sample when given new binary features from rules for each class is
target:  count how many rules of each class it satisfies
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the simple method the authors use to measure the class likelihood of a sample when given new binary features from rules for each class is count how many rules of each class it satisfies

[163]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when inferring class likelihood from new binary features generated from rules for each class, the quantity counted for each class to measure the likelihood of a sample is
target:  the sum of the binary feature per class.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when inferring class likelihood from new binary features generated from rules for each class, the quantity counted for each class to measure the likelihood of a sample is the sum of the binary feature per class.

[164]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the section on inferring class likelihood from generated binary rules and features, this must be learned from training samples rather than by simply counting how many rules of each class a sample satisfies because
target:  not all rules and features carry the same importance
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the section on inferring class likelihood from generated binary rules and features, this must be learned from training samples rather than by simply counting how many rules of each class a sample satisfies because not all rules and features carry the same importance

[165]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors aim to learn from training samples that not all rules and features should be weighted equally by learning
target:  their significance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors aim to learn from training samples that not all rules and features should be weighted equally by learning their significance.

[166]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe learning the importance of rules and features for each class by applying a conventional machine learning model to
target:  each class's binary feature.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe learning the importance of rules and features for each class by applying a conventional machine learning model to each class's binary feature.

[167]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the notation used for the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ is
target:  $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the notation used for the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ is $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$.

[168]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the definition of the generated binary feature $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$ for sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ and class $k$, $R$ denotes
target:  the number of rules per each class
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the definition of the generated binary feature $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$ for sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ and class $k$, $R$ denotes the number of rules per each class

[169]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the notation where the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ is denoted as $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$, $c$ represents
target:  the number of classes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the notation where the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ is denoted as $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$, $c$ represents the number of classes.

[170]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the linear model used to compute the class logits $\text{logit}_k^i = \max(\mathbf{w}_k, 0) \cdot \mathbf{z}_k^i$ for each class, $\mathbf{w}_k$ represents
target:  the trainable weight.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the linear model used to compute the class logits $\text{logit}_k^i = \max(\mathbf{w}_k, 0) \cdot \mathbf{z}_k^i$ for each class, $\mathbf{w}_k$ represents the trainable weight.

[171]
probe: In the linear model of the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", $\\mathbf{w}_k$ signify
target:  the importance of each feature.
fact: In the linear model of the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", $\\mathbf{w}_k$ signify the importance of each feature.

[172]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that the trainable weights in the linear model are projected into a subspace so that features generated by the LLM do not reduce the likelihood of a class during learning, namely
target:  a positive subspace.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that the trainable weights in the linear model are projected into a subspace so that features generated by the LLM do not reduce the likelihood of a class during learning, namely a positive subspace.

[173]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when trainable weights are projected into a positive subspace, LLM-generated features do not reduce
target:  the likelihood of a class.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when trainable weights are projected into a positive subspace, LLM-generated features do not reduce the likelihood of a class.

[174]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the loss optimized to learn the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ using the few-shot training samples is
target:  cross-entropy loss.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the loss optimized to learn the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ using the few-shot training samples is cross-entropy loss.

[175]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when optimizing the cross-entropy loss, the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ is learned using
target:  a few-shot training samples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when optimizing the cross-entropy loss, the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ is learned using a few-shot training samples.

[176]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors create multiple inference models and make the final prediction via ensemble by having the models
target:  repeatedly execute the entire process
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors create multiple inference models and make the final prediction via ensemble by having the models repeatedly execute the entire process

[177]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors repeatedly execute the entire process to create multiple inference models in order to
target:  make the final prediction via ensemble
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors repeatedly execute the entire process to create multiple inference models in order to make the final prediction via ensemble

[178]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ensembling-with-bagging procedure, the notation used for the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials is
target:  $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ensembling-with-bagging procedure, the notation used for the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials is $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$.

[179]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ensembling-with-bagging procedure, the final prediction is made given the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials, denoted as $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$, by
target:  averaging the probability for each class $\mathbf{p}^i$
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ensembling-with-bagging procedure, the final prediction is made given the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials, denoted as $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$, by averaging the probability for each class $\mathbf{p}^i$

[180]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the quantity set to a sufficiently high value to introduce randomness in rule generation for the ensemble during LLM inference is
target:  temperature.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the quantity set to a sufficiently high value to introduce randomness in rule generation for the ensemble during LLM inference is temperature.

[181]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the process assigned a sufficiently high temperature to introduce randomness in rule generation for the ensemble is
target:  LLM inference.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the process assigned a sufficiently high temperature to introduce randomness in rule generation for the ensemble is LLM inference.

[182]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors adopt the ensemble method
target:  bagging.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors adopt the ensemble method bagging.

[183]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when bagging is used to obtain more robust predictions in the ensemble approach, the subset selected for each trial consists of
target:  features or instances.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when bagging is used to obtain more robust predictions in the ensemble approach, the subset selected for each trial consists of features or instances.

[184]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that bagging is particularly useful when there is a larger number of
target:  training samples or features
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that bagging is particularly useful when there is a larger number of training samples or features

[185]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the proposed ensemble approach, incorrect rules generated by the LLM in some trials can be compensated by
target:  the correct rules from other trials.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the proposed ensemble approach, incorrect rules generated by the LLM in some trials can be compensated by the correct rules from other trials.

[186]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed ensemble approach states that correct rules from other trials can compensate for incorrect rules generated by the LLM in some trials, enhancing
target:  the overall robustness of the framework
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed ensemble approach states that correct rules from other trials can compensate for incorrect rules generated by the LLM in some trials, enhancing the overall robustness of the framework

[187]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the robustness gained from rules that are commonly inferred across multiple trials ties into the LLM’s
target:  self-consistency.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the robustness gained from rules that are commonly inferred across multiple trials ties into the LLM’s self-consistency.

[188]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ discussion of the LLM’s self-consistency characterizes rules that are commonly inferred across multiple trials as
target:  accurate.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ discussion of the LLM’s self-consistency characterizes rules that are commonly inferred across multiple trials as accurate.

[189]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the ensemble method used to address the LLM prompt-size limitation when tabular data exceed the allowable input size and to ensure robust performance is
target:  bagging.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the ensemble method used to address the LLM prompt-size limitation when tabular data exceed the allowable input size and to ensure robust performance is bagging.

[190]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that when the tabular data exceed the allowable input prompt size, bagging helps reduce the prompt size, which ensures
target:  robust performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that when the tabular data exceed the allowable input prompt size, bagging helps reduce the prompt size, which ensures robust performance.

[191]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that when a single rule set may not capture relationships among all features, the impact of incomplete feature or instance coverage in individual trials can be nullified by
target:  the ensemble of various weak learners created across multiple trials.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that when a single rule set may not capture relationships among all features, the impact of incomplete feature or instance coverage in individual trials can be nullified by the ensemble of various weak learners created across multiple trials.

[192]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the framework that the authors evaluate over multiple tabular datasets and analyze to investigate how it works is
target:  FeatLLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the framework that the authors evaluate over multiple tabular datasets and analyze to investigate how it works is FeatLLM.

[193]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors conduct various analyses after evaluating \textsf{FeatLLM} over multiple tabular datasets
target:  to investigate how our framework works
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors conduct various analyses after evaluating \textsf{FeatLLM} over multiple tabular datasets to investigate how our framework works

[194]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the experiments for binary or multi-class classification tasks use a total of
target:  13 datasets.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the experiments for binary or multi-class classification tasks use a total of 13 datasets.

[195]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the dataset used for predicting whether a customer will subscribe to a term deposit is
target:  Bank.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the dataset used for predicting whether a customer will subscribe to a term deposit is Bank.

[196]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors list 13 datasets used for binary or multi-class classification tasks. For the Myocardial dataset, it is used to predict
target:  chronic heart failure.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors list 13 datasets used for binary or multi-class classification tasks. For the Myocardial dataset, it is used to predict chronic heart failure.

[197]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the dataset included for predicting how high the grain yield of this soybean will be is
target:  Cultivars.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the dataset included for predicting how high the grain yield of this soybean will be is Cultivars.

[198]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", one of the more recent datasets included for predicting the given person's age group from the record is
target:  NHANES.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", one of the more recent datasets included for predicting the given person's age group from the record is NHANES.

[199]
probe: In the additional synthetic dataset Sequence-type described in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", a given sequence is classified as one of four types, namely
target:  arithmetic, geometric, Fibonacci, or Collatz.
fact: In the additional synthetic dataset Sequence-type described in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", a given sequence is classified as one of four types, namely arithmetic, geometric, Fibonacci, or Collatz.

[200]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the date after which the former two datasets in their benchmark suite were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository, ensuring they were not part of the pre-training for the LLM API used by their model, is
target:  September 2023.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the date after which the former two datasets in their benchmark suite were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository, ensuring they were not part of the pre-training for the LLM API used by their model, is September 2023.

[201]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that the former two datasets were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository after September 2023, and were therefore not part of the pre-training for the LLM API used by their model,
target:  gpt-3.5-turbo-0613.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that the former two datasets were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository after September 2023, and were therefore not part of the pre-training for the LLM API used by their model, gpt-3.5-turbo-0613.

[202]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the latter two evaluation datasets described in the context, which were used to ensure they could not be memorized by the LLM API, are
target:  synthetic datasets
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the latter two evaluation datasets described in the context, which were used to ensure they could not be memorized by the LLM API, are synthetic datasets

[203]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the latter two datasets could not be memorized by the LLM API used by the model before the evaluation because they were
target:  synthetic datasets
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the latter two datasets could not be memorized by the LLM API used by the model before the evaluation because they were synthetic datasets

[204]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the datasets cited as including over 100 attributes and posing challenges due to the limited context window size in LLMs are
target:  `Communities' and `Myocardial'.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the datasets cited as including over 100 attributes and posing challenges due to the limited context window size in LLMs are `Communities' and `Myocardial'.

[205]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", datasets like `Communities` and `Myocardial`, which include over 100 attributes, pose challenges when using an LLM because of
target:  limited context window size
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", datasets like `Communities` and `Myocardial`, which include over 100 attributes, pose challenges when using an LLM because of limited context window size

[206]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the first three baselines in the comparison, namely logistic regression (LogReg), XGBoost, and RandomForest, are
target:  conventional tabular learning approaches
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the first three baselines in the comparison, namely logistic regression (LogReg), XGBoost, and RandomForest, are conventional tabular learning approaches

[207]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the first three conventional tabular learning baselines used in the evaluation, the method listed as the second baseline is
target:  XGBoost.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the first three conventional tabular learning baselines used in the evaluation, the method listed as the second baseline is XGBoost.

[208]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the baseline that assumes the use of unlabeled datasets and is listed as (4) is
target:  SCARF.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the baseline that assumes the use of unlabeled datasets and is listed as (4) is SCARF.

[209]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the two baselines that assume the use of unlabeled datasets in the comparison with nine baselines, the method listed as baseline (5) is
target:  STUNT.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the two baselines that assume the use of unlabeled datasets in the comparison with nine baselines, the method listed as baseline (5) is STUNT.

[210]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the requirement for the unlabeled-data baselines that the authors note may be infeasible in real-world applications is
target:  obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the requirement for the unlabeled-data baselines that the authors note may be infeasible in real-world applications is obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset

[211]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of baselines that assume the use of unlabeled datasets, obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset may be infeasible in
target:  real-world applications.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of baselines that assume the use of unlabeled datasets, obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset may be infeasible in real-world applications.

[212]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the recent baseline that generates a synthetic dataset with diverse distribution to pretrain the model is
target:  TabPFN.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the recent baseline that generates a synthetic dataset with diverse distribution to pretrain the model is TabPFN.

[213]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the recent baseline TabPFN generates data with diverse distributions in order to pretrain the model, namely
target:  a synthetic dataset.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the recent baseline TabPFN generates data with diverse distributions in order to pretrain the model, namely a synthetic dataset.

[214]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the final three LLM-based baselines, the one numbered (8) is
target:  TABLET.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the final three LLM-based baselines, the one numbered (8) is TABLET.

[215]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the LLM-based baseline numbered (9), following (7) In-context learning (In-context) and (8) TABLET, is
target:  TabLLM.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the LLM-based baseline numbered (9), following (7) In-context learning (In-context) and (8) TABLET, is TabLLM.

[216]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the In-context learning baseline
target:  directly embeds few-shot training samples into the input prompt without tuning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the In-context learning baseline directly embeds few-shot training samples into the input prompt without tuning.

[217]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the In-context baseline directly embeds few-shot training samples without tuning into
target:  the input prompt.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the In-context baseline directly embeds few-shot training samples without tuning into the input prompt.

[218]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TABLET further incorporates into the prompt, through an external classifier via rule-sets and prototypes,
target:  additional hints.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TABLET further incorporates into the prompt, through an external classifier via rule-sets and prototypes, additional hints.

[219]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TABLET incorporates additional hints into the prompt to enhance the quality of inference through
target:  an external classifier.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TABLET incorporates additional hints into the prompt to enhance the quality of inference through an external classifier.

[220]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabLLM trains the LLM with few-shot samples using
target:  parameter-efficient tuning
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabLLM trains the LLM with few-shot samples using parameter-efficient tuning

[221]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", an example of the parameter-efficient tuning technique used by TabLLM to train the LLM with few-shot samples is
target:  IA3.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", an example of the parameter-efficient tuning technique used by TabLLM to train the LLM with few-shot samples is IA3.

[222]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the implementation details for FeatLLM using GPT-3.5 as the LLM backbone, the temperature set for LLM inference is
target:  0.5.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the implementation details for FeatLLM using GPT-3.5 as the LLM backbone, the temperature set for LLM inference is 0.5.

[223]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the implementation details of FeatLLM, the top-p value used for LLM inference in the API is
target:  the default value of 1.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the implementation details of FeatLLM, the top-p value used for LLM inference in the API is the default value of 1.

[224]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when setting the FeatLLM hyperparameters for feature extraction, the number of ensembles the authors used was
target:  20.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when setting the FeatLLM hyperparameters for feature extraction, the number of ensembles the authors used was 20.

[225]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors set the number of rules for extraction in their experimental setup, along with the number of ensembles, to
target:  10
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors set the number of rules for extraction in their experimental setup, along with the number of ensembles, to 10

[226]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when replicating baselines in the few-shot tabular learning experiments, the model utilized for in-context learning is
target:  GPT-3.5.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when replicating baselines in the few-shot tabular learning experiments, the model utilized for in-context learning is GPT-3.5.

[227]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when replicating baselines, the model used in TabLLM following the original setting is
target:  T0.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when replicating baselines, the model used in TabLLM following the original setting is T0.

[228]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabLLM restricts its use to LLMs with
target:  publicly available checkpoints.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabLLM restricts its use to LLMs with publicly available checkpoints.

[229]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the model that is not accessible in the TabLLM setting because TabLLM restricts the use of LLMs to only those with publicly available checkpoints is
target:  GPT-3.5.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the model that is not accessible in the TabLLM setting because TabLLM restricts the use of LLMs to only those with publicly available checkpoints is GPT-3.5.

[230]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the parameters of traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest were determined using
target:  Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the parameters of traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest were determined using Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation

[231]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the traditional machine learning methods whose parameters were determined using Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation were
target:  LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the traditional machine learning methods whose parameters were determined using Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation were LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest.

[232]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation used to tune parameters for traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, $k$ is set to
target:  2 or 4.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation used to tune parameters for traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, $k$ is set to 2 or 4.

[233]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation for traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, setting $k$ to either 2 or 4 guarantees that the training set includes
target:  each class.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation for traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, setting $k$ to either 2 or 4 guarantees that the training set includes each class.

[234]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors repeated the experiments with different random choices of training and test sets
target:  three times.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors repeated the experiments with different random choices of training and test sets three times.

[235]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in experiments repeated three times with different randomness in the choice of training/test sets, the reported averages and standard deviations are for
target:  AUC values.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in experiments repeated three times with different randomness in the choice of training/test sets, the reported averages and standard deviations are for AUC values.

[236]
probe: In the reported results of the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently ranks as
target:  the top performer.
fact: In the reported results of the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently ranks as the top performer.

[237]
probe: In the reported comparisons across datasets against other baseline models in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently secures
target:  the second place
fact: In the reported comparisons across datasets against other baseline models in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently secures the second place

[238]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the models that demonstrated significant performance improvements on certain datasets, even though their overall enhancement over conventional machine learning models was not substantial, were
target:  STUNT and TabPFN
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the models that demonstrated significant performance improvements on certain datasets, even though their overall enhancement over conventional machine learning models was not substantial, were STUNT and TabPFN

[239]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the models mentioned as examples of LLM-based approaches that failed to infer on tabular datasets with a large number of features are
target:  in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the models mentioned as examples of LLM-based approaches that failed to infer on tabular datasets with a large number of features are in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM

[240]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", models utilizing LLMs such as in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM failed to infer on tabular datasets with
target:  a large number of features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", models utilizing LLMs such as in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM failed to infer on tabular datasets with a large number of features.

[241]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the techniques that the authors’ framework uses to remain effective on tabular datasets with a large number of features and still achieve satisfactory performance are
target:  bagging and ensemble techniques.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the techniques that the authors’ framework uses to remain effective on tabular datasets with a large number of features and still achieve satisfactory performance are bagging and ensemble techniques.

[242]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors stated that their framework, which employed both bagging and ensemble techniques, proved effective and exhibited satisfactory performance on tabular datasets with
target:  numerous features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors stated that their framework, which employed both bagging and ensemble techniques, proved effective and exhibited satisfactory performance on tabular datasets with numerous features.

[243]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the aspect that could be adapted to existing LLM-based approaches is
target:  our bagging and ensemble concept.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the aspect that could be adapted to existing LLM-based approaches is our bagging and ensemble concept.

[244]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ bagging and ensemble concept could be adapted to
target:  existing LLM-based approaches.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ bagging and ensemble concept could be adapted to existing LLM-based approaches.

[245]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that adapting their bagging and ensemble concept to existing LLM-based approaches would double the number of per-sample inferences, causing a substantial increase in
target:  computational complexity.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that adapting their bagging and ensemble concept to existing LLM-based approaches would double the number of per-sample inferences, causing a substantial increase in computational complexity.

[246]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance, \textsf{-Tuning} omits
target:  the weight tuning process.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance, \textsf{-Tuning} omits the weight tuning process.

[247]
probe: In the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the \textsf{-Ensemble} setting omits
target:  the ensemble process.
fact: In the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the \textsf{-Ensemble} setting omits the ensemble process.

[248]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance, \textsf{-Reasoning} omits, when generating rules in the reasoning instruction part,
target:  the Step-1 process.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance, \textsf{-Reasoning} omits, when generating rules in the reasoning instruction part, the Step-1 process.

[249]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study summarized in Table~\ref{tab:ablation}, the benefit of weight tuning becomes higher
target:  when the number of shots increases.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study summarized in Table~\ref{tab:ablation}, the benefit of weight tuning becomes higher when the number of shots increases.

[250]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the quantity whose increase makes the benefit of weight tuning higher is
target:  the number of shots.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the quantity whose increase makes the benefit of weight tuning higher is the number of shots.

[251]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation analysis averaged across all datasets, a large amount of data makes feasible the
target:  accurate estimation of the importance of rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation analysis averaged across all datasets, a large amount of data makes feasible the accurate estimation of the importance of rules.

[252]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when there is a large amount of data and the importance of rules can be accurately estimated, the significant effect is
target:  the effect of tuning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when there is a large amount of data and the importance of rules can be accurately estimated, the significant effect is the effect of tuning.

[253]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the effects of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions are high
target:  when the number of shot is small.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the effects of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions are high when the number of shot is small.

[254]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the factor that has a high effect when the number of shots is small is
target:  feature descriptions and reasoning instructions
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the factor that has a high effect when the number of shots is small is feature descriptions and reasoning instructions

[255]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the number of shots is small and the effect of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions is high, a crucial factor for performance improvements is
target:  the efficient utilization of the prior knowledge of LLM
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the number of shots is small and the effect of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions is high, a crucial factor for performance improvements is the efficient utilization of the prior knowledge of LLM

[256]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the number of shots is small, the factor that becomes crucial for performance improvements is
target:  the prior knowledge of LLM.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the number of shots is small, the factor that becomes crucial for performance improvements is the prior knowledge of LLM.

[257]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of how feature descriptions, reasoning instructions, and rules affect performance in the few-shot tabular learning setting, the approach that consistently improves the performance in all settings is
target:  the proposed ensemble approach
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of how feature descriptions, reasoning instructions, and rules affect performance in the few-shot tabular learning setting, the approach that consistently improves the performance in all settings is the proposed ensemble approach

[258]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the default hardware used in the training and inference time comparison experiments, except for TabLLM which uses four A100 GPUs for model parallelism, is
target:  One A100 GPU
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the default hardware used in the training and inference time comparison experiments, except for TabLLM which uses four A100 GPUs for model parallelism, is One A100 GPU

[259]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the training and inference time comparison on the Adult dataset with a 16-shot training set, TabLLM uses model parallelism on
target:  four A100 GPUs.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the training and inference time comparison on the Adult dataset with a 16-shot training set, TabLLM uses model parallelism on four A100 GPUs.

[260]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison experiment on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, the method with relatively low inference time comparable to that of conventional methods is
target:  FeatLLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison experiment on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, the method with relatively low inference time comparable to that of conventional methods is FeatLLM.

[261]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a 16-shot training set, FeatLLM shows a relatively low inference time. This inference time is described as being comparable to
target:  conventional methods.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a 16-shot training set, FeatLLM shows a relatively low inference time. This inference time is described as being comparable to conventional methods.

[262]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, the LLM-based approaches mentioned as exhibiting much higher inference time than \textsf{FeatLLM} are
target:  In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, the LLM-based approaches mentioned as exhibiting much higher inference time than \textsf{FeatLLM} are In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM

[263]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, other LLM-based approaches such as In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM exhibit, relative to \textsf{FeatLLM},
target:  higher inference time
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, other LLM-based approaches such as In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM exhibit, relative to \textsf{FeatLLM}, higher inference time

[264]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in terms of training time, \textsf{FeatLLM} requires
target:  30 API queries.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in terms of training time, \textsf{FeatLLM} requires 30 API queries.

[265]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of training time for \textsf{FeatLLM}, requiring only 30 API queries does not impose a significant burden on
target:  the budget.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of training time for \textsf{FeatLLM}, requiring only 30 API queries does not impose a significant burden on the budget.

[266]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the 30 API queries required for \textsf{FeatLLM} training can be
target:  parallelized.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the 30 API queries required for \textsf{FeatLLM} training can be parallelized.

[267]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the property of rule-based features generated by FeatLLM for practical tasks that the authors investigate in a simple experiment is
target:  informativeness.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the property of rule-based features generated by FeatLLM for practical tasks that the authors investigate in a simple experiment is informativeness.

[268]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment evaluating the quality of features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM}, the metric the authors measure between the newly generated features and the target labels is
target:  average AUROC.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment evaluating the quality of features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM}, the metric the authors measure between the newly generated features and the target labels is average AUROC.

[269]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after measuring the average AUROC between the newly generated features and the target labels, the authors compute for each dataset
target:  the ratio of useful features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after measuring the average AUROC between the newly generated features and the target labels, the authors compute for each dataset the ratio of useful features.

[270]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when evaluating the quality of rule-based features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM}, the AUROC threshold used to count a feature as useful is
target:  0.5.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when evaluating the quality of rule-based features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM}, the AUROC threshold used to count a feature as useful is 0.5.

[271]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the threshold value used when tuning the linear model, based on the overall histogram of weights, so that rules with learned weights below it were filtered out, was
target:  0.1.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the threshold value used when tuning the linear model, based on the overall histogram of weights, so that rules with learned weights below it were filtered out, was 0.1.

[272]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", while tuning the linear model with data and filtering out rules with learned weights below a threshold, the threshold at 0.1 was set by taking into consideration
target:  the overall histogram of weights.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", while tuning the linear model with data and filtering out rules with learned weights below a threshold, the threshold at 0.1 was set by taking into consideration the overall histogram of weights.

[273]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to ascertain how effectively various methods filter out noisy spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, the authors conducted
target:  an analysis.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to ascertain how effectively various methods filter out noisy spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, the authors conducted an analysis.

[274]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that they conducted an analysis to determine how effectively various methods filter out
target:  noisy spurious correlations
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that they conducted an analysis to determine how effectively various methods filter out noisy spurious correlations

[275]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the analysis of the effect of adding spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, the base dataset to which irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset were randomly attached was
target:  the Heart dataset.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the analysis of the effect of adding spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, the base dataset to which irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset were randomly attached was the Heart dataset.

[276]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment analyzing the effect of adding spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, columns from the dataset randomly attached to the Heart dataset as irrelevant features were from
target:  the Adult dataset.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment analyzing the effect of adding spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, columns from the dataset randomly attached to the Heart dataset as irrelevant features were from the Adult dataset.

[277]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the Heart dataset experiment where irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset are randomly attached to study spurious correlations, the authors progressively increase the number of unrelated columns and measure
target:  the performance changes of the models.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the Heart dataset experiment where irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset are randomly attached to study spurious correlations, the authors progressively increase the number of unrelated columns and measure the performance changes of the models.

[278]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the low-shot regime analysis using the Heart dataset with unrelated columns from the Adult dataset, the number of labeled samples per class assumed for a fair comparison when excluding methods like SCARF or STUNT by not using an unlabeled dataset is
target:  8 shots.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the low-shot regime analysis using the Heart dataset with unrelated columns from the Adult dataset, the number of labeled samples per class assumed for a fair comparison when excluding methods like SCARF or STUNT by not using an unlabeled dataset is 8 shots.

[279]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the low-shot analysis on the Heart dataset with spurious correlations, the methods excluded from the fair comparison because the experiment does not consider an unlabeled dataset are
target:  SCARF or STUNT.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the low-shot analysis on the Heart dataset with spurious correlations, the methods excluded from the fair comparison because the experiment does not consider an unlabeled dataset are SCARF or STUNT.

[280]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment that measured performance changes while progressively increasing the number of unrelated columns using the same 8 labeled shots and no unlabeled dataset, the method that showed the least performance degradation from spurious correlations compared to the baselines was
target:  FeatLLM.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment that measured performance changes while progressively increasing the number of unrelated columns using the same 8 labeled shots and no unlabeled dataset, the method that showed the least performance degradation from spurious correlations compared to the baselines was FeatLLM.

[281]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when extracting rules, the authors' framework forces consideration of
target:  the relationship between the task and features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when extracting rules, the authors' framework forces consideration of the relationship between the task and features.

[282]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the \textsf{FeatLLM} framework is extracting rules, it uses as the basis for considering the relationship between the task and features
target:  prior knowledge.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the \textsf{FeatLLM} framework is extracting rules, it uses as the basis for considering the relationship between the task and features prior knowledge.

[283]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that forcing consideration of the relationship between the task and features based on prior knowledge when extracting rules helps prevent the generation of rules based on
target:  irrelevant columns.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that forcing consideration of the relationship between the task and features based on prior knowledge when extracting rules helps prevent the generation of rules based on irrelevant columns.

[284]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of \textsf{FeatLLM}'s robustness to spurious correlations and rule extraction, the kind of columns that accounted for only 1-2\% of the total rules were
target:  noisy columns.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of \textsf{FeatLLM}'s robustness to spurious correlations and rule extraction, the kind of columns that accounted for only 1-2\% of the total rules were noisy columns.

[285]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the hyper-parameter analysis of \textsf{FeatLLM}, one of the two main hyper-parameters mentioned is
target:  the number of ensembles
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the hyper-parameter analysis of \textsf{FeatLLM}, one of the two main hyper-parameters mentioned is the number of ensembles

[286]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the hyper-parameter analysis of \textsf{FeatLLM}, the other main hyper-parameter besides the number of ensembles is
target:  how many rules per class to extract during each LLM query.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the hyper-parameter analysis of \textsf{FeatLLM}, the other main hyper-parameter besides the number of ensembles is how many rules per class to extract during each LLM query.

[287]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM has two main hyper-parameters.
target:  One is the number of ensembles, and the other is how many rules per class to extract during each LLM query.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM has two main hyper-parameters. One is the number of ensembles, and the other is how many rules per class to extract during each LLM query.

[288]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ experiments investigated the impact of the two main hyper-parameters of \textsf{FeatLLM} on
target:  performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ experiments investigated the impact of the two main hyper-parameters of \textsf{FeatLLM} on performance.

[289]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the name of the method presented that advances the state-of-the-art in LLM-based few-shot tabular learning is
target:  FeatLLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the name of the method presented that advances the state-of-the-art in LLM-based few-shot tabular learning is FeatLLM.

[290]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} requires minimal inference cost, needs only API access without training, and overcomes constraints on data feature size through
target:  rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} requires minimal inference cost, needs only API access without training, and overcomes constraints on data feature size through rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging.

[291]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when \textsf{FeatLLM} uses rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, it requires
target:  minimal inference cost.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when \textsf{FeatLLM} uses rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, it requires minimal inference cost.

[292]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM can operate without training while using rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, requiring
target:  only API access.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM can operate without training while using rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, requiring only API access.

[293]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when applied to real-world tabular data in a data-efficient way, FeatLLM achieves
target:  high prediction performance.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when applied to real-world tabular data in a data-efficient way, FeatLLM achieves high prediction performance.

[294]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the issue the authors say their research aims to mitigate in order to push data efficiency in learning, by supplementing limited training samples with prior knowledge, is
target:  overfitting.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the issue the authors say their research aims to mitigate in order to push data efficiency in learning, by supplementing limited training samples with prior knowledge, is overfitting.

[295]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors attribute the issue of overfitting in their \textsf{FeatLLM} framework to
target:  limited training samples.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors attribute the issue of overfitting in their \textsf{FeatLLM} framework to limited training samples.

[296]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the research supplements learning with something in order to mitigate overfitting due to limited training samples and improve data efficiency in learning, namely
target:  prior knowledge
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the research supplements learning with something in order to mitigate overfitting due to limited training samples and improve data efficiency in learning, namely prior knowledge

[297]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", labeling is challenging for practitioners in the real-world finance and healthcare scenarios discussed for \textsf{FeatLLM} because of
target:  the high human cost or label collection difficulties.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", labeling is challenging for practitioners in the real-world finance and healthcare scenarios discussed for \textsf{FeatLLM} because of the high human cost or label collection difficulties.

[298]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors say prior knowledge in LLMs can be particularly valuable in real-world finance and healthcare scenarios where labeling is difficult because
target:  the LLMs are pretrained with relevant finance or healthcare related text.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors say prior knowledge in LLMs can be particularly valuable in real-world finance and healthcare scenarios where labeling is difficult because the LLMs are pretrained with relevant finance or healthcare related text.

[299]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the name of the novel in-context learning framework introduced by the authors that aims to understand the "criteria" underlying LLM predictions is
target:  FeatLLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the name of the novel in-context learning framework introduced by the authors that aims to understand the "criteria" underlying LLM predictions is FeatLLM.

[300]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the novel in-context learning framework \textsf{FeatLLM} aims to understand the underlying basis of LLM predictions, namely the
target:  criteria.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the novel in-context learning framework \textsf{FeatLLM} aims to understand the underlying basis of LLM predictions, namely the criteria.

[301]
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the serialization format used for example demonstrations, the text used to introduce the ground-truth label after the serialized feature values is
target:  Answer:.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the serialization format used for example demonstrations, the text used to introduce the ground-truth label after the serialized feature values is Answer:.

[302]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM introduces noisy syntactic changes during rule generation, the comparison symbols it might replace are
target:  ``$>$” or ``$<$”
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM introduces noisy syntactic changes during rule generation, the comparison symbols it might replace are ``$>$” or ``$<$”

[303]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that although STUNT and TabPFN showed significant gains on some datasets, their overall enhancement was not substantial over
target:  conventional machine learning models
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that although STUNT and TabPFN showed significant gains on some datasets, their overall enhancement was not substantial over conventional machine learning models

[304]
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the method whose rule-based features are evaluated in the simple experiment designed to investigate their informativeness in solving practical tasks is
target:  FeatLLM.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the method whose rule-based features are evaluated in the simple experiment designed to investigate their informativeness in solving practical tasks is FeatLLM.

