----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The superseding indictment alleges that defendants induced their social-media followers to purchase securities through posts misrepresenting their trading positions and the potential price of securities, artificially inflating the securities’ prices and allowing defendants to profit.
answer: "their trading positions"
statement: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, in the Fifth Circuit securities-fraud prosecution based on a "pump and dump" scheme, the superseding indictment alleged that the defendants used social-media posts to induce followers to buy securities by misrepresenting "their trading positions".

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The superseding indictment alleges that defendants induced their social-media followers to purchase securities through posts misrepresenting their trading positions and the potential price of securities, artificially inflating the securities’ prices and allowing defendants to profit.
answer: "artificially inflating the securities’ prices"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the Fifth Circuit described a superseding indictment in a securities-fraud case involving an alleged “pump and dump” scheme as alleging that the defendants’ social-media posts had the effect of "artificially inflating the securities’ prices".

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court dismissed the indictment, concluding that it failed to state an offense by merely alleging that defendants sought to deprive their followers of potentially valuable economic information instead of a traditional property interest.
answer: Answer: "a traditional property interest"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the district court dismissed the superseding indictment for securities fraud because it alleged that the defendants sought to deprive their social-media followers of potentially valuable economic information, but the indictment failed to allege "a traditional property interest".

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government alleges that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight engaged in a scheme to “pump and dump” securities.
answer: “pump and dump”
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the government alleges that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight engaged in a securities scheme, “pump and dump”.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government alleges that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight engaged in a scheme to “pump and dump” securities.
answer: “securities”
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the government alleges that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight engaged in a scheme to “pump and dump” “securities”.

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They held themselves out to be skilled stock traders and frequently posted their trading activities on social media.
answer: "skilled stock traders"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the government alleged that Edward Constantinescu and the other defendants engaged in a scheme to "pump and dump" securities, the opinion states that they held themselves out to the public as "skilled stock traders".

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They held themselves out to be skilled stock traders and frequently posted their trading activities on social media.
answer: "their trading activities"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the government alleged that Edward Constantinescu and the other defendants were involved in a securities "pump and dump" scheme, and while holding themselves out to be skilled stock traders, they frequently posted on social media "their trading activities".

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To carry out their “pump and dump” scheme, the government alleges that defendants would purchase a security, “‘pump’ the price of that security by posting false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,” and “dump” by secretly selling the security for a profit.
answer: "false and misleading information about the security"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the government alleged that several defendants were involved in a securities "pump and dump" scheme, the defendants allegedly posted on social media to "pump" the price of a security and induce other investors to buy it by sharing "false and misleading information about the security".

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants were indicted for conspiracy to commit securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349, and multiple counts of securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2.
answer: "18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants were indicted for conspiracy to commit securities fraud and for multiple counts of securities fraud under "18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2".

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court dismissed the indictment, concluding that it failed to allege that defendants schemed to deprive victims of any traditional property interest.
answer: "any traditional property interest"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the district court dismissed the indictment on the ground that it did not adequately allege that the defendants schemed to deprive victims of "any traditional property interest".

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[T]he court is required to take the allegations of the indictment as true and to determine whether an offense has been stated.” United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)).
answer: "whether an offense has been stated"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, when reviewing the sufficiency of an indictment and taking the indictment’s allegations as true, the Fifth Circuit must determine "whether an offense has been stated".

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An indictment must “(1) enumerate each prima facie element of the charged offense; (2) fairly inform the defendant of the charges filed against him; and (3) provide the defendant with a double jeopardy defense against future prosecutions.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996).
answer: “each prima facie element of the charged offense”
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the Fifth Circuit, quoting United States v. Gaytan, stated that an indictment must enumerate “each prima facie element of the charged offense”.

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “In sum, to be sufficient, an indictment must allege each material element of the offense.” United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).
answer: "each material element of the offense"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court stated that, to be sufficient, an indictment must allege "each material element of the offense".

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The securities fraud statute prohibits schemes to “defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” and schemes “to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” U.S.C. § 1348.
answer: any security
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the securities fraud statute prohibits schemes to "defraud any person" only if they are in connection with any security

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While “[t]here is scant caselaw construing the securities fraud statute in this circuit,” § 1348 “borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes,” so “courts have given the terms similar treatment,” often relying on mail and wire fraud cases in analyzing securities fraud charges. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023).
answer: "mail and wire fraud statutes"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when discussing the securities fraud statute, § 1348 borrows key concepts from the "mail and wire fraud statutes".

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With those concepts in mind, securities fraud requires (1) a “scheme to defraud” (2) enacted with an “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339.
answer: "scheme to defraud"
statement: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, and applying the cited standard for securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1348, the government must prove a "scheme to defraud".

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With those concepts in mind, securities fraud requires (1) a “scheme to defraud” (2) enacted with an “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339.
answer: "intent to defraud"
statement: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, and in light of the court’s discussion of securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1348, the scheme to defraud must be accompanied by "intent to defraud".

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The “scheme to defraud” element requires a material misrepresentation “intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)).
answer: “a material misrepresentation”
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the securities fraud statute’s "scheme to defraud" element requires a statement or act intended to deceive others, namely “a material misrepresentation”.

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The “scheme to defraud” element requires a material misrepresentation “intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)).
answer: “something of value”
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when explaining the "scheme to defraud" element of securities fraud, a material misrepresentation must be intended to obtain from the person or entity being deceived “something of value”.

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The “intent to defraud” element requires “an intent to (1) deceive, and (2) cause some harm to result from the deceit.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712).
answer: “deceive”
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the securities fraud statute’s "intent to defraud" element requires an intent to do two things; first, to “deceive”.

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The “intent to defraud” element requires “an intent to (1) deceive, and (2) cause some harm to result from the deceit.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712).
answer: “cause some harm to result from the deceit”
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the opinion explains that the securities fraud statute’s “intent to defraud” element requires an intent to do two things, the second of which is “cause some harm to result from the deceit”.

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In sum, a defendant commits securities fraud when he “‘engaged in deception’” and “[o]btaining the victim’s money or property” was “‘an object’ of his fraud.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)).
answer: "engaged in deception"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the summarized rule says a defendant committed securities fraud only if obtaining the victim’s money or property was an object of the fraud and he had "engaged in deception".

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In sum, a defendant commits securities fraud when he “‘engaged in deception’” and “[o]btaining the victim’s money or property” was “‘an object’ of his fraud.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)).
answer: "[o]btaining the victim’s money or property"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," under the court’s summary of the securities-fraud rule as requiring that the defendant have "engaged in deception," an object of the defendant’s fraud must have been "[o]btaining the victim’s money or property".

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But they contend that the indictment does not allege a scheme to defraud nor an intent to defraud.
answer: "a scheme to defraud"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment is insufficient under the securities fraud statute because, besides an “intent to defraud,” it does not allege "a scheme to defraud".

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But they contend that the indictment does not allege a scheme to defraud nor an intent to defraud.
answer: "an intent to defraud"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment was insufficient because they contended it did not allege "an intent to defraud".

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In their view, the indictment merely alleges that they intended to deprive their followers of valuable economic information (not money or property) to enrich themselves (not injure their followers).
answer: "valuable economic information"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court was discussing the defendants’ argument that the indictment did not allege a scheme to defraud or an intent to defraud under the securities fraud statute, and, according to that view, the indictment allegedly said they intended to deprive their followers of, rather than money or property, "valuable economic information".

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In their view, the indictment merely alleges that they intended to deprive their followers of valuable economic information (not money or property) to enrich themselves (not injure their followers).
answer: "enrich themselves"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment did not allege an intent to defraud because it said they were trying to deprive their followers of valuable economic information, not money or property, and instead alleged that they intended to "enrich themselves".

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants argue that the district court properly dismissed the indictment because it does not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest.
answer: a protected property interest
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the defendants argued that the district court properly dismissed the indictment because it failed to allege that their followers were deprived of a protected property interest.

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While it is true that a defendant cannot be convicted of fraud for depriving an individual of potentially valuable economic information alone, the indictment here went further, properly alleging defendants’ scheme to defraud their followers of money.
answer: "potentially valuable economic information"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the defendants argued that the indictment did not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest, the opinion states that a defendant cannot be convicted of fraud for depriving an individual of "potentially valuable economic information".

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While it is true that a defendant cannot be convicted of fraud for depriving an individual of potentially valuable economic information alone, the indictment here went further, properly alleging defendants’ scheme to defraud their followers of money.
answer: "money"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, although the defendants argued that the district court properly dismissed the indictment because it did not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest, the opinion states that the indictment properly alleged the defendants’ scheme to defraud their followers of "money".

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information.
answer: "Ciminelli"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the Supreme Court held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information in "Ciminelli".

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information.
answer: "valuable economic information"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Ciminelli, which held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on depriving someone of "valuable economic information"

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There, Ciminelli’s construction company paid a lobbyist to help it obtain state-funded jobs.
answer: "state-funded jobs"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," when discussing Ciminelli, Ciminelli’s construction company was trying to obtain with the help of a lobbyist "state-funded jobs".

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, it alleges that defendants induced their followers, through misrepresentations, to purchase securities— that is, to part with their money or property.
answer: misrepresentations
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the indictment alleges that the defendants induced their followers to purchase securities and part with money or property through misrepresentations.

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, it alleges that defendants induced their followers, through misrepresentations, to purchase securities— that is, to part with their money or property.
answer: their money or property
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the opinion distinguished the indictment from the right-to-control theory discussed in Ciminelli and explained that the defendants allegedly induced their followers, through misrepresentations, to purchase securities, which meant parting with their money or property.

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Unlike the right-to-control theory rejected in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory advanced here “protects money and property.”
answer: "Ciminelli"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court says that the right-to-control theory was rejected in "Ciminelli".

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment does not run afoul of Ciminelli because it alleges defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to buy securities.
answer: "a protected property interest"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, in considering whether the indictment ran afoul of Ciminelli, the court noted that the indictment alleged defendants fraudulently induced their followers to buy securities and deprived them of "a protected property interest".

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment does not run afoul of Ciminelli because it alleges defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to buy securities.
answer: "securities"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the indictment does not run afoul of Ciminelli because it alleges that the defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to buy "securities".

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants next argue that the indictment fails to allege an intent to defraud because it alleges defendants intended to profit from their scheme, not harm any victim.
answer: "an intent to defraud"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment was deficient because it failed to allege "an intent to defraud".

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants next argue that the indictment fails to allege an intent to defraud because it alleges defendants intended to profit from their scheme, not harm any victim.
answer: "to profit from their scheme"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment did not properly allege an intent to defraud because it said they intended to do something other than harm any victim: "to profit from their scheme".

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Kousisis, the defendant lied to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation.
answer: "contracts"
statement: In the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed Kousisis and noted that the defendant there lied in order to obtain them from a state department of transportation, namely "contracts".

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Kousisis, the defendant lied to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation.
answer: "a state department of transportation"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed Kousisis, where the defendant lied to obtain contracts with "a state department of transportation".

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The state required contractors to subcontract with a disadvantaged business, and Kousisis falsely represented that his company would fulfill that requirement.
answer: "a disadvantaged business"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the opinion discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, where the defendant lied to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation that required contractors to subcontract with "a disadvantaged business".

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The state required contractors to subcontract with a disadvantaged business, and Kousisis falsely represented that his company would fulfill that requirement.
answer: "fulfill that requirement"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the opinion discussing Kousisis and a state transportation contract requirement explains that the state required contractors to subcontract with a disadvantaged business, and Kousisis falsely represented that his company would "fulfill that requirement".

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Once his company was awarded the contracts, Kousisis used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.”
answer: "a mere ‘pass-through’ entity"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the court discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, where the defendant falsely represented that his company would satisfy a disadvantaged-business subcontracting requirement in order to obtain state transportation contracts, and once his company was awarded the contracts, Kousisis used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as "a mere ‘pass-through’ entity".

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Once his company was awarded the contracts, Kousisis used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.”
answer: "the disadvantaged-business subcontractor"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, while discussing the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, where the defendant lied to obtain state transportation contracts, the court noted that after Kousisis’s company was awarded those contracts, he used a mere “pass-through” entity to satisfy the disadvantaged-business subcontracting requirement, namely "the disadvantaged-business subcontractor".

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When his lie came to light, the government charged Kousisis under the “fraudulent-inducement theory” whereby a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property—regardless of whether the fraudster, who often provides something in return, seeks to cause the victim net pecuniary loss.”
answer: “fraudulent-inducement theory”
statement: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis involved a defendant who lied to obtain state transportation contracts, and when that lie came to light, the government charged Kousisis under “fraudulent-inducement theory”.

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Kousisis argued that the fraudulent-inducement theory could not stand because it permitted a conviction in the absence of evidence that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.”
answer: "hurt the victim’s bottom line"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", Kousisis argued that the fraudulent-inducement theory allowed a conviction even without evidence that the defendant sought to "hurt the victim’s bottom line".

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Court rejected that assertion, holding that a defendant violates the fraud statutes when he “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’ regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.”
answer: "economically worse off"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court quotes the Supreme Court’s holding in Kousisis on the fraud statutes as providing that a defendant may violate the fraud statutes regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim "economically worse off".

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For example, it alleges that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.”
answer: "false and misleading information"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the court was considering whether the indictment sufficiently alleged an intent to defraud, the indictment alleged that the defendants posted about the security so that other investors would be induced to purchase it with "false and misleading information".

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because the fraud statutes do not require actual economic harm, defendants’ followers’ receipt of market-value securities does not obviate the fraud charges.
answer: "actual economic harm"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that their followers received market-value securities, so the fraud charges should fail. The opinion says the fraud statutes do not require "actual economic harm".

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because the fraud statutes do not require actual economic harm, defendants’ followers’ receipt of market-value securities does not obviate the fraud charges.
answer: "market-value securities"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, although the defendants argued that the fraud charges should fail because their followers were not actually economically harmed, the opinion stated that the followers received "market-value securities".

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (concluding defendant may be liable in fraud even when he “provides something—be it money, property, or services—of equal value in return”).
answer: "money, property, or services"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court described in Kousisis the kinds of things a defendant could provide in return and still be liable for fraud, even if they were of equal value, "money, property, or services".

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment’s allegation that defendants pumped and dumped to gain a profit shows that they “had money in mind.”
answer: "money"
statement: In the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the indictment’s allegation that defendants pumped and dumped securities to gain a profit showed that defendants had "money" in mind.

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment’s allegation of defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities is sufficient to allege an injury.
answer: "purchase securities"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the defendants argued that the indictment failed to allege an injury because their alleged scheme was aimed at profit rather than harm, the indictment said they fraudulently induced their followers to "purchase securities".

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment’s allegation of defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities is sufficient to allege an injury.
answer: "defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities"
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court held that the indictment adequately alleged injury for the fraud charges because it alleged "defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities".

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (explaining that the fraud statutes do not impose a “mirror image” requirement where the victim’s loss of money or property supplied the defendant’s gain); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (applying Kousisis in a similar context).
answer: Kousisis
statement: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court cites United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, and 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025), and notes that Smith applied Kousisis in a similar context.

