----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The superseding indictment alleges that defendants induced their social-media followers to purchase securities through posts misrepresenting their trading positions and the potential price of securities, artificially inflating the securities’ prices and allowing defendants to profit.
fact: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, in the Fifth Circuit securities-fraud prosecution based on a "pump and dump" scheme, the superseding indictment alleged that the defendants used social-media posts to induce followers to buy securities by misrepresenting their trading positions
target:  their trading positions
probe: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, in the Fifth Circuit securities-fraud prosecution based on a "pump and dump" scheme, the superseding indictment alleged that the defendants used social-media posts to induce followers to buy securities by misrepresenting

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The superseding indictment alleges that defendants induced their social-media followers to purchase securities through posts misrepresenting their trading positions and the potential price of securities, artificially inflating the securities’ prices and allowing defendants to profit.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the Fifth Circuit described a superseding indictment in a securities-fraud case involving an alleged “pump and dump” scheme as alleging that the defendants’ social-media posts had the effect of artificially inflating the securities’ prices
target:  artificially inflating the securities’ prices
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the Fifth Circuit described a superseding indictment in a securities-fraud case involving an alleged “pump and dump” scheme as alleging that the defendants’ social-media posts had the effect of

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court dismissed the indictment, concluding that it failed to state an offense by merely alleging that defendants sought to deprive their followers of potentially valuable economic information instead of a traditional property interest.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, in the district court ruling dismissing a securities-fraud indictment in a "pump and dump" scheme case that was reviewed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, the district court concluded that the indictment merely alleged the defendants sought to deprive their followers of potentially valuable economic information
target:  potentially valuable economic information
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, in the district court ruling dismissing a securities-fraud indictment in a "pump and dump" scheme case that was reviewed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, the district court concluded that the indictment merely alleged the defendants sought to deprive their followers of

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because we conclude that the indictment sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s dismissal of the indictment.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit concluded that the securities-fraud indictment arising from an alleged pump-and-dump scheme sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud
target:  sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit concluded that the securities-fraud indictment arising from an alleged pump-and-dump scheme

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government alleges that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight engaged in a scheme to “pump and dump” securities.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the government alleges that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight engaged in a scheme to “pump and dump” securities.
target:  to “pump and dump” securities
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the government alleges that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight engaged in a scheme

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They held themselves out to be skilled stock traders and frequently posted their trading activities on social media.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the government alleged that Edward Constantinescu and the other defendants engaged in a scheme to "pump and dump" securities, the opinion states that they held themselves out to be skilled stock traders.
target:  skilled stock traders
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the government alleged that Edward Constantinescu and the other defendants engaged in a scheme to "pump and dump" securities, the opinion states that they held themselves out to be

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To carry out their “pump and dump” scheme, the government alleges that defendants would purchase a security, “‘pump’ the price of that security by posting false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,” and “dump” by secretly selling the security for a profit.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the government alleged that several defendants were involved in a securities "pump and dump" scheme, the defendants allegedly posted on social media to "pump" the price of a security by sharing false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,
target:  false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the government alleged that several defendants were involved in a securities "pump and dump" scheme, the defendants allegedly posted on social media to "pump" the price of a security by sharing

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To carry out their “pump and dump” scheme, the government alleges that defendants would purchase a security, “‘pump’ the price of that security by posting false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,” and “dump” by secretly selling the security for a profit.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the government alleged that the defendants engaged in a securities "pump and dump" scheme in which they artificially increased the security’s price and then "dumped" it by secretly selling the security for a profit
target:  secretly selling the security for a profit
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the government alleged that the defendants engaged in a securities "pump and dump" scheme in which they artificially increased the security’s price and then "dumped" it by

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants were indicted for conspiracy to commit securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349, and multiple counts of securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the federal indictment charged conspiracy to commit securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349
target:  in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the federal indictment charged conspiracy to commit securities fraud,

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants were indicted for conspiracy to commit securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349, and multiple counts of securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants were indicted for conspiracy to commit securities fraud and for multiple counts of securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2.
target:  18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants were indicted for conspiracy to commit securities fraud and for multiple counts of securities fraud, in violation of

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court dismissed the indictment, concluding that it failed to allege that defendants schemed to deprive victims of any traditional property interest.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the district court dismissed the indictment on the ground that it did not adequately allege that the defendants schemed to deprive victims of any traditional property interest
target:  any traditional property interest
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the district court dismissed the indictment on the ground that it did not adequately allege that the defendants schemed to deprive victims of

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[T]he court is required to take the allegations of the indictment as true and to determine whether an offense has been stated.” United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)).
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, when the Fifth Circuit reviews the sufficiency of an indictment de novo, it must take the allegations of the indictment as true.
target:  the allegations of the indictment as true
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, when the Fifth Circuit reviews the sufficiency of an indictment de novo, it must take

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[T]he court is required to take the allegations of the indictment as true and to determine whether an offense has been stated.” United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)).
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, when reviewing the sufficiency of an indictment and taking the indictment’s allegations as true, the Fifth Circuit must determine whether an offense has been stated.
target:  whether an offense has been stated
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, when reviewing the sufficiency of an indictment and taking the indictment’s allegations as true, the Fifth Circuit must determine

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An indictment must “(1) enumerate each prima facie element of the charged offense; (2) fairly inform the defendant of the charges filed against him; and (3) provide the defendant with a double jeopardy defense against future prosecutions.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996).
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the Fifth Circuit, quoting United States v. Gaytan, stated that an indictment must enumerate each prima facie element of the charged offense.
target:  enumerate each prima facie element of the charged offense
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the Fifth Circuit, quoting United States v. Gaytan, stated that an indictment must

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “In sum, to be sufficient, an indictment must allege each material element of the offense.” United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court stated that, to be sufficient, an indictment must allege each material element of the offense
target:  each material element of the offense
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court stated that, to be sufficient, an indictment must allege

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The securities fraud statute prohibits schemes to “defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” and schemes “to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” U.S.C. § 1348.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the securities fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1348, prohibits schemes in connection with the purchase or sale of any security by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises to obtain any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.
target:  any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the securities fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1348, prohibits schemes in connection with the purchase or sale of any security by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises to obtain

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While “[t]here is scant caselaw construing the securities fraud statute in this circuit,” § 1348 “borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes,” so “courts have given the terms similar treatment,” often relying on mail and wire fraud cases in analyzing securities fraud charges. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when discussing the securities fraud statute, § 1348 borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes
target:  the mail and wire fraud statutes
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when discussing the securities fraud statute, § 1348 borrows key concepts from

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With those concepts in mind, securities fraud requires (1) a “scheme to defraud” (2) enacted with an “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339.
fact: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, and applying the cited standard for securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1348, the government must prove a “scheme to defraud”
target:  a “scheme to defraud”
probe: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, and applying the cited standard for securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1348, the government must prove

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With those concepts in mind, securities fraud requires (1) a “scheme to defraud” (2) enacted with an “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339.
fact: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, and in light of the court’s discussion of securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1348, the scheme to defraud must be enacted with an “intent to defraud.”
target:  an “intent to defraud.”
probe: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, and in light of the court’s discussion of securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1348, the scheme to defraud must be enacted with

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The “scheme to defraud” element requires a material misrepresentation “intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the securities fraud statute’s "scheme to defraud" element requires a statement or act intended to deceive others, namely a material misrepresentation
target:  a material misrepresentation
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the securities fraud statute’s "scheme to defraud" element requires a statement or act intended to deceive others, namely

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The “scheme to defraud” element requires a material misrepresentation “intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when explaining the "scheme to defraud" element of securities fraud, a material misrepresentation must be intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.
target:  something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when explaining the "scheme to defraud" element of securities fraud, a material misrepresentation must be intended to deceive others in order to obtain

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The “intent to defraud” element requires “an intent to (1) deceive, and (2) cause some harm to result from the deceit.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the securities fraud statute’s "intent to defraud" element requires an intent to do two things; first, to deceive
target:  deceive
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the securities fraud statute’s "intent to defraud" element requires an intent to do two things; first, to

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The “intent to defraud” element requires “an intent to (1) deceive, and (2) cause some harm to result from the deceit.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712).
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the opinion explains that the securities fraud statute’s “intent to defraud” element requires an intent to do two things, the second of which is cause some harm to result from the deceit.
target:  cause some harm to result from the deceit.
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the opinion explains that the securities fraud statute’s “intent to defraud” element requires an intent to do two things, the second of which is

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In sum, a defendant commits securities fraud when he “‘engaged in deception’” and “[o]btaining the victim’s money or property” was “‘an object’ of his fraud.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the summarized rule says a defendant committed securities fraud only if obtaining the victim’s money or property was an object of the fraud and he had “‘engaged in deception’”.
target:  “‘engaged in deception’”
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the summarized rule says a defendant committed securities fraud only if obtaining the victim’s money or property was an object of the fraud and he had

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But they contend that the indictment does not allege a scheme to defraud nor an intent to defraud.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment is insufficient under the securities fraud statute because, besides an “intent to defraud,” it does not allege a scheme to defraud nor an intent to defraud.
target:  a scheme to defraud nor an intent to defraud.
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment is insufficient under the securities fraud statute because, besides an “intent to defraud,” it does not allege

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But they contend that the indictment does not allege a scheme to defraud nor an intent to defraud.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment was insufficient because they contended it did not allege an intent to defraud.
target:  an intent to defraud.
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment was insufficient because they contended it did not allege

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In their view, the indictment merely alleges that they intended to deprive their followers of valuable economic information (not money or property) to enrich themselves (not injure their followers).
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court was discussing the defendants’ argument that the indictment did not allege a scheme to defraud or an intent to defraud under the securities fraud statute, and, according to that view, the indictment allegedly said they intended to deprive their followers of valuable economic information
target:  valuable economic information
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court was discussing the defendants’ argument that the indictment did not allege a scheme to defraud or an intent to defraud under the securities fraud statute, and, according to that view, the indictment allegedly said they intended to deprive their followers of

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In their view, the indictment merely alleges that they intended to deprive their followers of valuable economic information (not money or property) to enrich themselves (not injure their followers).
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment did not allege an intent to defraud because it said they were trying to deprive their followers of valuable economic information, not money or property, and instead alleged that they intended to enrich themselves
target:  enrich themselves
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment did not allege an intent to defraud because it said they were trying to deprive their followers of valuable economic information, not money or property, and instead alleged that they intended to

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants argue that the district court properly dismissed the indictment because it does not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued on appeal that the district court properly dismissed the indictment.
target:  properly dismissed the indictment
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued on appeal that the district court

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While it is true that a defendant cannot be convicted of fraud for depriving an individual of potentially valuable economic information alone, the indictment here went further, properly alleging defendants’ scheme to defraud their followers of money.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the defendants argued that the indictment did not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest, the opinion states that a defendant cannot be convicted of fraud for depriving an individual of potentially valuable economic information alone.
target:  potentially valuable economic information alone
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the defendants argued that the indictment did not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest, the opinion states that a defendant cannot be convicted of fraud for depriving an individual of

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While it is true that a defendant cannot be convicted of fraud for depriving an individual of potentially valuable economic information alone, the indictment here went further, properly alleging defendants’ scheme to defraud their followers of money.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, although the defendants argued that the district court properly dismissed the indictment because it did not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest, the opinion states that the indictment properly alleged the defendants’ scheme to defraud their followers of money.
target:  money.
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, although the defendants argued that the district court properly dismissed the indictment because it did not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest, the opinion states that the indictment properly alleged the defendants’ scheme to defraud their followers of

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the Supreme Court held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information in Ciminelli
target:  Ciminelli
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the Supreme Court held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information in

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Ciminelli, which held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information.
target:  the deprivation of valuable economic information.
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Ciminelli, which held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There, Ciminelli’s construction company paid a lobbyist to help it obtain state-funded jobs.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the Supreme Court discussed the facts in Ciminelli, where Ciminelli’s construction company paid a lobbyist
target:  a lobbyist
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the Supreme Court discussed the facts in Ciminelli, where Ciminelli’s construction company paid

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There, Ciminelli’s construction company paid a lobbyist to help it obtain state-funded jobs.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," when discussing Ciminelli, Ciminelli’s construction company was trying to obtain, with the help of a lobbyist, state-funded jobs.
target:  state-funded jobs
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," when discussing Ciminelli, Ciminelli’s construction company was trying to obtain, with the help of a lobbyist,

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Court held that because the federal fraud statutes protect only traditional property interests, and “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest,” “the right-to-control theory cannot form the basis for a [fraud] conviction.”
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the Court explained that the federal fraud statutes protect only traditional property interests
target:  only traditional property interests
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the Court explained that the federal fraud statutes protect

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, it alleges that defendants induced their followers, through misrepresentations, to purchase securities— that is, to part with their money or property.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the indictment alleges that the defendants induced their followers to purchase securities and part with money or property through misrepresentations
target:  misrepresentations
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the indictment alleges that the defendants induced their followers to purchase securities and part with money or property through

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment alleges a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” under which a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property.”
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the indictment alleges a fraudulent-inducement theory rather than a right-to-control theory, a defendant uses a material misstatement
target:  a material misstatement
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the indictment alleges a fraudulent-inducement theory rather than a right-to-control theory, a defendant uses

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Unlike the right-to-control theory rejected in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory advanced here “protects money and property.”
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court says that the right-to-control theory was rejected in Ciminelli.
target:  Ciminelli
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court says that the right-to-control theory was rejected in

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment does not run afoul of Ciminelli because it alleges defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to buy securities.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, in considering whether the indictment ran afoul of Ciminelli, the court noted that the indictment alleged defendants fraudulently induced their followers to buy securities and deprived them of a protected property interest
target:  a protected property interest
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, in considering whether the indictment ran afoul of Ciminelli, the court noted that the indictment alleged defendants fraudulently induced their followers to buy securities and deprived them of

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment does not run afoul of Ciminelli because it alleges defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to buy securities.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the indictment does not run afoul of Ciminelli because it alleges that the defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to buy securities
target:  securities
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the indictment does not run afoul of Ciminelli because it alleges that the defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to buy

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants next argue that the indictment fails to allege an intent to defraud because it alleges defendants intended to profit from their scheme, not harm any victim.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment was deficient because it failed to allege an intent to defraud.
target:  an intent to defraud
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment was deficient because it failed to allege

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Defendants next argue that the indictment fails to allege an intent to defraud because it alleges defendants intended to profit from their scheme, not harm any victim.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment did not properly allege an intent to defraud because it said they intended to do something other than harm any victim: to profit from their scheme.
target:  to profit from their scheme
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment did not properly allege an intent to defraud because it said they intended to do something other than harm any victim:

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the Supreme Court recently rejected a similar argument, holding that the fraud statutes do not require a victim to suffer an economic loss from a defendant’s scheme.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment failed to allege an intent to defraud because it alleged they intended to profit from the scheme rather than harm any victim, but the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of a similar argument confirms that the fraud statutes do not require a victim to suffer an economic loss.
target:  an economic loss
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that the indictment failed to allege an intent to defraud because it alleged they intended to profit from the scheme rather than harm any victim, but the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of a similar argument confirms that the fraud statutes do not require a victim to suffer

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Kousisis, the defendant lied to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation.
fact: In the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed Kousisis and noted that the defendant there lied in order to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation, namely contracts
target:  contracts
probe: In the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed Kousisis and noted that the defendant there lied in order to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation, namely

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In Kousisis, the defendant lied to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed Kousisis, where the defendant lied to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation.
target:  a state department of transportation.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed Kousisis, where the defendant lied to obtain contracts with

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The state required contractors to subcontract with a disadvantaged business, and Kousisis falsely represented that his company would fulfill that requirement.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the opinion discussing Kousisis and a state transportation contract requirement explains that the state required contractors to subcontract with a disadvantaged business, and Kousisis falsely represented that his company would fulfill that requirement.
target:  fulfill that requirement.
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the opinion discussing Kousisis and a state transportation contract requirement explains that the state required contractors to subcontract with a disadvantaged business, and Kousisis falsely represented that his company would

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Once his company was awarded the contracts, Kousisis used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.”
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the court discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, where the defendant falsely represented that his company would satisfy a disadvantaged-business subcontracting requirement in order to obtain state transportation contracts, and once his company was awarded the contracts, Kousisis used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.”
target:  “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.”
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu," the court discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, where the defendant falsely represented that his company would satisfy a disadvantaged-business subcontracting requirement in order to obtain state transportation contracts, and once his company was awarded the contracts, Kousisis used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When his lie came to light, the government charged Kousisis under the “fraudulent-inducement theory” whereby a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property—regardless of whether the fraudster, who often provides something in return, seeks to cause the victim net pecuniary loss.”
fact: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis involved a defendant who lied to obtain state transportation contracts, and when that lie came to light, the government charged Kousisis under “fraudulent-inducement theory”
target:  “fraudulent-inducement theory”
probe: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis involved a defendant who lied to obtain state transportation contracts, and when that lie came to light, the government charged Kousisis under

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When his lie came to light, the government charged Kousisis under the “fraudulent-inducement theory” whereby a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property—regardless of whether the fraudster, who often provides something in return, seeks to cause the victim net pecuniary loss.”
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, discussing the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, the opinion explains that under the “fraudulent-inducement theory” a defendant tricks a victim into entering a contract by using a material misstatement
target:  a material misstatement
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, discussing the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, the opinion explains that under the “fraudulent-inducement theory” a defendant tricks a victim into entering a contract by using

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Kousisis argued that the fraudulent-inducement theory could not stand because it permitted a conviction in the absence of evidence that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.”
fact: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, in the Supreme Court case Kousisis, the defendant argued that a conviction could not stand because it allowed conviction even without evidence that the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line, under the fraudulent-inducement theory
target:  the fraudulent-inducement theory
probe: According to the opinion in United States v. Constantinescu, in the Supreme Court case Kousisis, the defendant argued that a conviction could not stand because it allowed conviction even without evidence that the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line, under

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Kousisis argued that the fraudulent-inducement theory could not stand because it permitted a conviction in the absence of evidence that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.”
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", Kousisis argued that the fraudulent-inducement theory allowed a conviction even without evidence that the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.
target:  the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", Kousisis argued that the fraudulent-inducement theory allowed a conviction even without evidence that

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Court rejected that assertion, holding that a defendant violates the fraud statutes when he “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’ regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.”
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court quotes the Supreme Court’s holding in Kousisis on the fraud statutes as providing that a defendant may violate the fraud statutes regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.”
target:  economically worse off.”
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court quotes the Supreme Court’s holding in Kousisis on the fraud statutes as providing that a defendant may violate the fraud statutes regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For example, it alleges that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.”
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the court was considering whether the indictment sufficiently alleged an intent to defraud, the indictment alleged that the defendants posted false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.
target:  false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the court was considering whether the indictment sufficiently alleged an intent to defraud, the indictment alleged that the defendants posted

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For example, it alleges that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.”
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the indictment alleges that defendants posted false and misleading information about the security and induced the following group to purchase it: other investors.
target:  other investors
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the indictment alleges that defendants posted false and misleading information about the security and induced the following group to purchase it:

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because the fraud statutes do not require actual economic harm, defendants’ followers’ receipt of market-value securities does not obviate the fraud charges.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that their followers received market-value securities, so the fraud charges should fail. The opinion says the fraud statutes do not require actual economic harm.
target:  actual economic harm
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the defendants argued that their followers received market-value securities, so the fraud charges should fail. The opinion says the fraud statutes do not require

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because the fraud statutes do not require actual economic harm, defendants’ followers’ receipt of market-value securities does not obviate the fraud charges.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, although the defendants argued that the fraud charges should fail because their followers were not actually economically harmed, the opinion stated that the followers received market-value securities
target:  market-value securities
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, although the defendants argued that the fraud charges should fail because their followers were not actually economically harmed, the opinion stated that the followers received

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (concluding defendant may be liable in fraud even when he “provides something—be it money, property, or services—of equal value in return”).
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court described in Kousisis the kinds of things a defendant could provide in return and still be liable for fraud, even if they were of equal value: money, property, or services
target:  money, property, or services
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court described in Kousisis the kinds of things a defendant could provide in return and still be liable for fraud, even if they were of equal value:

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment’s allegation of defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities is sufficient to allege an injury.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the defendants argued that the indictment failed to allege an injury because their alleged scheme was aimed at profit rather than harm, the indictment said they fraudulently induced their followers to purchase securities
target:  to purchase securities
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, where the defendants argued that the indictment failed to allege an injury because their alleged scheme was aimed at profit rather than harm, the indictment said they fraudulently induced their followers

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The indictment’s allegation of defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities is sufficient to allege an injury.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court held that the indictment adequately alleged injury for the fraud charges because it alleged defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities
target:  defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court held that the indictment adequately alleged injury for the fraud charges because it alleged

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because the indictment sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s dismissal of the indictment and REMAND for proceedings consistent with this opinion.
fact: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court of appeals reviewed the district court’s dismissal of the indictment and reversed, saying the indictment sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud
target:  a scheme and intent to defraud
probe: In United States v. Constantinescu, the court of appeals reviewed the district court’s dismissal of the indictment and reversed, saying the indictment sufficiently alleges

