--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on the butterfly structure, which is widely used in computer networks. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning method that is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been extensively used in computer networks. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is constructed by combining multiple identity matrices and a single full matrix. BOFT is a sparse orthogonal matrix that is constructed by stacking multiple butterfly matrices. The BOFT method is parameter-efficient, and it can be implemented in a straightforward manner. The BOFT method can be implemented in a way that is both straightforward and parameter-efficient. The BOFT method has a parameter efficiency of 1/3 compared to the OFT method, which is the most parameter-efficient orthogonal fineturing approach. The BOFT method achieves a parameter efficiency of 33% compared to the OFT approach, which is the most efficient orthogonal finetuning approach. The BOFT approach is able to achieve a parameter efficiency of 3/4 compared to the standard finetuning approach. BOFT is able to achieve a 75% parameter efficiency compared to the standard finetting approach. The BOFT technique is able to achieve a level of parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of the standard finetuning technique. The BOFT approach achieves a parameter efficiency that is comparable with that of the standard finetting approach.

The BOFT approach is able, in a straightforward manner, to achieve a parameter efficiency that is similar to that of the standard fine-tuning approach. The BOft approach is able to achieve an efficiency that is comparable to the standard finetuing approach. The BOFT strategy is able to achieve a degree of parameter efficiency that is similar with that of the standard fine tuning approach. The BOFT methodology is able to achieve a comparable level of parameter efficiency to that of the standard tuning approach. The BOft technique is able to achieve an effectiveness that is comparable to that achieved by the standard finetuing technique. The BOFT technique achieves a parameter efficiency that compares favorably with that of the standard tuning technique. The BOFT method, which is based on the butterfly matrix, is able to achieve a high level of parameter efficiency. The BOFT method that is based on butterfly matrices is able to achieve a very high level of parameter efficiency.

The BOFT approach achieves a level of parameter efficiency comparable to that of the OFT approach, and it is able to achieve a higher level of parameter efficiency than the block-diagonal OFT approach. The BOFT is able to attain a level of parameter efficiency similar to that of the OF approach, and it is capable of achieving a higher level of parameter effectiveness than the block-diagonal approach. The BOFT achieves a level of parameter effectiveness that is comparable to the OFT approach and is able to achieve a greater level of parameter efficiency than block-diagonal OFT. The BOFT approach attains a level of parameter efficiency which is comparable to that of OFT, and it is able achieve a higher level of efficiency than the block-diagona approach. The BOFT attains a level of efficiency that is comparable to OFT, and it achieves a higher level of efficiency compared to the block-diagonal OF approach. The BOFT reaches a level of efficiency that compares favorably to OFT, and is able to achieve an even higher level of efficiency than block-diagonal BOFT. The BOFT approach reaches a level of efficiency comparable to OFT, while also achieving a higher level of efficiency when compared to block-diagonal BOFT.

The BOFT approach, which is based on butterfly matrices, is able to achieve an extremely high level of parameter efficiency, and it is able, in a simple manner, to achieve a level of efficiency that matches that of the standard fineting approach. The BOFT, which is based on a butterfly matrix, is able, in a very straightforward manner, to achieve an efficiency that compares favorably against the standard finetuing method. The BOFT approach, which utilizes butterfly matrices, is able, in an uncomplicated manner, to achieve a degree of efficiency that is comparable with the standard finetuing strategy. The BOFT approach that is based on butterfly matrix is able, in a manner that is straightforward, to achieve a level efficiency that is comparable to standard finetuing approach.

The BOFT method is able to achieve a significant reduction in the number of parameters, and it is able in a straightforward manner to achieve a level of effectiveness that is comparable to standard fine-tuning. The BOFT approach can achieve a substantial reduction in the number of model parameters, and it is capable, in a straightforward manner to attain a level of effectiveness that compares favorably with standard finetuing. The BOFT approach has the ability to achieve a significant reduction of the number of parameters, while also being able to achieve a level effectiveness that is comparable to fine-tuning. The approach of BOFT is able to reduce the number of parameters significantly, and it is able attain a level of effectiveness comparable to standard finetuning. The BOFT
