--- PROMPT ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is essentially

--- GENERATION ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is essentially a reward model that is optimized to maximize the human preference function, and then fine-tuned to maximize the reward estimate without drifting too far from its original value.
This is a natural approach, but it is not immediately clear how to optimize the reward model to achieve the desired goal.
In this paper, we propose a new reward model that is easy to optimize, and we show that it can be used to solve the standard RL problem with only a simple loss function.
We call this new reward model the \textit{direct preference model} (DPM), and we refer to the optimization problem of maximizing the DPM with a given preference function as \textit{direct prefer- ence optimization} (DPO).
We show that DPO can be solved exactly, and we demonstrate that it is both stable and performant, outperforming existing methods on several benchmarks.

\section{Related Work}

\textbf{Large Language Models (LLMs)}: The most widely used LLMs today are based on the Transformer architecture, including OpenAI's GPT-3 and BERT (Devlin et al., 2019). These models have been shown to have impressive performance on a wide range of tasks, but they are also large, with GPT-3 having 175B parameters and BERT having 110B.
Recent work has shown that LLMs can be used to generate text that is aligned with human preferences, either by fine-tuning them with human feedback (e.g., \cite{li2022training,li2023learning}) or by optimizing the model to maximize a reward function that reflects human preferences (e.g., \citet{wang2023training}).
While these methods have shown promising results, they are typically based on reinforcement learning from human feedback, which is a complex and often unreliable procedure.
In this paper, our goal is to develop a method that can be used to optimize an LLM without relying on reinforcement learning.

\textbf{Reward Models}:
A common approach to learning a reward function for LLMs is to train a separate reward model from scratch, typically using reinforcement learning from human feedback.
For example, \citet{wang2019learning} use a neural network to predict the reward for a given sequence of tokens, and then train a reinforcement learning agent to maximize the reward.
\citet{li2022training} use a neural network that maps a sequence of tokens to a scalar reward, and then train a policy gradient algorithm to maximize the reward.
Other methods have been proposed to learn a reward function from a pre-trained LLM, including \citet{zhang2022learning}, \citet{wang_2022}, and \citet{wang et al.2022}.
These methods typically use a neural network to map a sequence of tokens to an output representing the reward for that sequence, and then train a neural network to maximize the reward.
However, these methods are typically based on reinforcementlearning from human feedback, and so they are not suitable for our goal of learning a reward function without reinforcement learning.

\textbackslash \textbf{Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback}:
The most common approach to learning a policy from human feedback is reinforcement learning from human feedback with deep reinforcement learning (DRL).
In DRL, a policy is learned from a sequence of human feedback, typically using a neural network to map the sequence of human feedback to a scalar reward.
The policy is then used to select actions from a state space, and the reward is used to update the policy in a way that maximizes the expected cumulative reward.
The most common approach to DRL is to use a deep Q-network (DQN) (Mnih et al., 2015), which is a neural network that maps states to a scalar action-value function, and then uses a policy gradient algorithm to update the action-value function to maximize the expected cumulative reward.
However, DQN requires a large number of training data, and so it is typically used with small models.
Other methods have been developed to address these limitations, including experience replay (Sutton et al., 2018), attention-based methods (Hulsmann et al., 2017), and memory-based methods (Kaelbling et al., 1996; Mnih et al., 2016).
However, these methods are still based on reinforcement learning from humans, and so they are unsuitable for our goal of learning from unsupervised data.

\section{Direct Preference Optimization}

In this section, we introduce the direct preference model (DPM), and show that it can be optimized to maximize the human preferences.
We then show that the DPM can be used to solve a standard reinforcement learning problem, and we introduce the direct preference optimization (DPO) algorithm, which is an algorithm for solving this problem.

\subsection{Direct Preference Model}

The DPM is a neural network that takes a sequence of tokens as input, and outputs a scalar value representing the human preference for that sequence.
The DPM
