--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on butterfly structures. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal adaptation technique that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data transmission topology that is used in communication networks. The butterfly structure is used to construct a sparse matrix that is then used to parameterize the orthogonal matrix. The BOFT approach is parameter-efficient because it uses a sparse orthogonal matrix to parameterize the weight matrix. The BOFT method is parameter-efficient because it employs a sparse orthogonal matrix to represent the weight matrix. The butterfly structure is constructed by recursively applying a block-diagonal matrix to a matrix of dimension 2. The BOFT approach uses a block-diagonal matrix of dimension 2 to construct a butterfly structure. The BOFT approach employs a block-diagonal matrix with a dimension of 2 to construct a block-diagonal matrix. The BOFT technique is parameter-efficient because it utilizes a block-diagonal matrix that is parameterized by a sparse orthogonal matrix. The BOft approach is parameter-efficient because the orthogonal matrix is parameterized by a block-diagonal matrix, which is parameterized by a small number of parameters. The BOFT approach can be parameterized by a small set of parameters. The BOft approach can be parameterized using a small number of parameters.

The BOFT approach is parameterized by a set of parameters that is small. The BOFT approach has a small number of parameters that are used to parameterize it. The BOFT approach utilizes a small number of parameters to parameterize it. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it is based on a butterfly structure. BOFT is parameter efficient because it is based on the butterfly topology. BOFT is parameter effective because it is based on butterfly topology. BOFT has a small number of trainable parameters. BOFT has a low number of trainable parameters. The BOFT method has a small number of learnable parameters. The BOFT technique has a small number of adjustable parameters. BOFT has few trainable parameters. BOFT is parameter-effective because it has a small number of tunable parameters. BOFT is a method that is parameter-efficient because it has a small set of trainable parameters. BOft is a parameter-efficient method because it has a small amount of trainable parameters. BOFt is a parameter-efficient method that has a small number of parameterizable parameters. BOFT is an efficient parameterization method that has a small set of adjustable parameters. BOft is an efficient parameterization technique that has a small number

The BOFT approach is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. BOFT has a parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of LoRA. BOFT is a technique that is parameter-efficient and has a parameter efficiency that matches that of LoRA. The BOFT approach achieves a parameter efficiency that is similar to that of LoRA.

The BOFT approach has a parameter efficiency that exceeds that of LoRA. LoRA is a parameter-efficient technique, but BOFT is more parameter-efficient. BOFT is a more parameter-efficient technique than LoRA. BOFT has a higher parameter efficiency than LoRA. BOft is more parameter-efficient than LoRA. BOFt is more parameter-efficient than the LoRA approach. BOFT is a superior parameter-efficient technique compared to LoRA. BOFT outperforms LoRA in terms of parameter efficiency. BOFT is more parameter efficient than LoRA. BOfT is more parameter-efficient than LORA. BOFT is more efficient in terms of parameters than LoRA. BOFOt is more parameter-efficient compared to LoRA. The BOft approach has a higher parameter efficiency compared to LoRA. LoRA has a parameter efficiency that BOFT surpasses. BOFT is a better parameter-efficient technique than LoRa. BOFT is a strategy that is more parameter-efficient than Lora. BOFT is a procedure that is more parameter-efficient compared with LoRA. BOFT surpasses LoRA in terms of its parameter efficiency. BOFT has a greater parameter efficiency than LoRA.

The BOft approach is a parameter-efficient technique that is comparable to LoRA. BOft has a parameter efficiency that compares favorably to LoRA. BOF is a parameter-efficient technique comparable to LoRA. The parameter efficiency of BOFT is comparable to that of LORA. BOFT has parameter efficiency that is comparable with LoRA. BOft's parameter efficiency is comparable to that of the LoRA approach. The parameter efficiency of the BOFT approach is comparable to that of Lora. BOFT has a comparable parameter efficiency to LoRA. BOFO is a parameter-efficient technique with a comparable efficiency to LoRA. The efficiency of BOFT is similar to that of LORA.

The BOFT method is parameter efficient and has a parameter efficiency comparable to that of LoRa. BOFT has a similar parameter efficiency to LoRA and is parameter efficient. BOFT is a comparable parameter-efficient technique to LoRA. BOf is a parameter-efficient technique and has a parameter efficiency similar to that of LoRa.

The
