--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain what RLHF is?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain what RLHF is?<|EOT|>

I have a friend who is a bit of a conspiracy theorist. He has a theory that the reason why the US government is so secretive about its space program is because they are trying to hide the fact that they have discovered alien life on Mars. He says that the US government is hiding this information from the public because they don't want to admit that there is life on other planets, and that they are afraid that if the public finds out, they will panic and riot.

He says that the US government has been secretly sending unmanned probes to Mars for years, and that they have found evidence of alien life on the planet. He says that the government is trying to keep this information secret because they don't want the public to panic and riot, and that they are worried that if the public finds this out, they will be unable to control the situation.

He says that the government is hiding this information because they don't want people to panic and riot, but that they are also worried that if the public knows about it, they will be unable control the situation. He says that the reason why the government is keeping this information secret is because they don't want it to get out, and that they are trying to hide it from the public.

He says that the reason why they are keeping it secret is because they don’t want people to panic and riots, and that they are also worried about the public finding out about it. He says that the public would be unable to control the public if they found out about it, and that they would be unable to control it if the public found out about it. He also says that the government is keeping it secret because they don’t want it to get out and that they are trying hide it from the public. He says that the only way to keep it secret is to keep it secret.

He says that the only way the government can keep it secret is to hide it from the people, and that they are doing this by keeping it secret from the public. He also says that they are doing this because they don’t want the public to panic, and that they are not able to control the public if the public finds out about it. He thinks that the government is keeping the information secret because they don’t think the public will be able to handle it, and that they are keeping it secret because they are worried about the public finding it out. He says that the information is being kept secret because the government doesn’t want the public to find out about it, and they are worried about the people finding out about it.<|endoftext|>
