--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

The paper introduces a new method for finetuning neural networks, called Orthogonal Butterfly Finetuning (BOFT). The idea behind BOFT is to use a parameter-efficient orthogonal matrix to transform the weights of a pretrained network. This is done by first computing a parameter-efficient orthogonal matrix, then applying it to the weights of the pretrained network. The resulting network is then finetuned on a new dataset. The paper claims that BOFT is more efficient than other methods for finetuning neural network weights, and that it can be used to improve the performance of pretrained networks.

In order to understand how BOFT works, it is helpful to first review some basic concepts in linear algebra. A matrix is a rectangular array of numbers that can be added, subtracted, and multiplied according to certain rules. An orthogonal matrix is a square matrix that is its own inverse. That is, if $A$ is an orthogonal matrix, then $A^{-1} = A^T$, where $A^T$ is the transpose of $A$. Orthogonal matrices have many useful properties, including the fact that they preserve the length of vectors and angles between vectors. This means that if you apply an orthogonal matrix to a vector, the resulting vector will still have the same length and the same angle with respect to the original vector.

One way to generate an orthogonal matrix is to use a parameter efficient orthogonal matrix. A parameter efficient orthogonal matrix is a matrix that has a small number of parameters, compared to the number of parameters in the matrix itself. For example, a parameter efficient orthogonal matrix can be generated using a small set of orthogonal basis vectors, such as the standard basis vectors in $\mathbb{R}^n$. By multiplying these basis vectors together in a particular way, you can generate an orthogonal matrix with a small number of parameters. This is the approach taken in the paper "Parameter-Eficient Orthogonal Finetunning via Factorization".

Once you have a parameter efficient orthogonal matrix, you can apply it to the weights of a pretrained neural network. The idea is to multiply the weights of the pretrained neural network by the parameter efficient orthogonal matrix, and then apply the resulting matrix to the weights of the network. This is done in a way that preserves the structure of the network, so that the resulting network still has the same layers and connections as the original network. The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" shows that this approach can be used to improve performance of pretrained networks, without requiring any additional training data.

To summarize, BOFT is a method for finetuning the weights of a pretrained deep neural network using a parameter efficient orthogonal matrix as a starting point. The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning by Factorization" demonstrates that BOFT can be used to improve network performance without requiring additional training data.<|endoftext|>
