--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective method for finetuning large pretrained models. OFT finetunes a pretrained model by learning an orthogonal transformation for each neuron, preserving the pairwise angles between neurons. OFT finetuning is conceptually simple -- at each training example, OFT learns an orthogonal transformation for each neurons, producing a finetuned model with no free parameters. OFT can be viewed as learning a neural rendering prior from scratch using diffusion models and then using this prior to generate high-fidelity images conditioned on sparse text prompts. OFT is agnostic to the pretrained model architecture and can be applied to any diffusion model. OFT is the only method that can provably finetune a pretrained diffusion model while preserving the pairwise neuron angles. We demonstrate the superiority of OFT through extensive empirical studies on various tasks, including high-fidelity image generation, semantic segmentation, and neural rendering. We also show OFT is the only provably angle-preserving method. LoRA uses the layer-shared weight update to reduce the number of trainable parameters, while OFT uses per-neuron update, which generally yields better performance. OFT can be interpreted as learning an orthogonal transformation for every neuron in a layer, producing a finetuneda model with no free parameters (Figure~\ref{fig:ortho}). We conduct extensive experiments on various tasks to show the superiority of OFT. On the other hand, OFT can adapt any pretrained model including S2I models. OFT can be applied to any type of pretrained model, any task, and any finetuning data. OFT is by far the most effective method for generating high-fidelity images from text prompts. OFT has no hyperparameters and produces consistently better results than existing methods. OFT is also orders of magnitudes faster than prior work. OFT is the first method that can generate high-fidelity images from scratch using only a text prompt. We also show OFTs superior generalization ability compared to existing methods. OFT can be used for any downstream task as long as we have a suitable loss function. OFT is also the only method that can guarantee zero KL-divergence with the pretrained model. We demonstrate OFT can be used to segment images with weak supervision, i.e., semantic segmentation conditioned on object instances detected by a detector. We also show OF T can be used for neural radiance rendering. We demonstrate OFT renders more realistic images than prior work. We also show OFТ can be used for few-shot text-to-image synthesis. We evaluate the performance of text-to-image diffusion models on the task of single-image diffusion prior prediction, which measures the model's ability to preserve the identity of the input image. We also evaluate the runtime of different methods. OFT is the most effective method for text-to-image generation. OFT is also by far the fastest method. OFT is the default choice for finetuning large models. OFT is the method that produces the highest-fidelity images with the fewest number of training examples. OFT is the standard way to finetune large pretrained models and will remain so in the future. OFT is the simplest method that works well. OFT is the new standard for finetuning diffusion models. OFT is guaranteed to produce angle-preserving transformations and has no hyperparameters. OFT is the fastest method that renders high-fidelity images. OFT is the state-of-the-art method for text-to-image diffusion. OFT is the best method for finetuning S2I models. We also evaluate the average runtime of different methods on the 1024x1024 case. OFT is the go-to method for finetuning Large Language Models (LLM). OFT is the method of choice for finetuning Large Vision Models (LVM). OFT is the only angle-preserving method that works well in practice. OFT is the preferred method for finetuning diffusion prior models. OFT is also much faster than LoRA and T2I. OFT is the easiest to implement and deploy. OFT is the generalization ability of a finetuned model to generate images from a class that it has not seen during training. OFT is the future of finetuning large pretrained neural networks. OFT is the work that every researcher in computer vision should read. OFT is the foundation of many future applications. OFT is the universal adapter that works for any task and any pretrained model. OFT is a simple yet powerful method for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models. OFT can also be used for few-shot generation. OFT is the way to go for finetuning large LLMs. OFT is the de-facto method for finetuning LLMs. OFTs performance is comparable to that of the original paper that proposed diffusion prior prediction. OFT is the right thing to do for the planet. OFT is the key to sustainable artificial intelligence. OFT is the solution to the problem of catastrophic forgetting. OFT is the answer to your prayers. OF
