\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### How can QLoRA match 16-bit finetuning performance when 4-bit quantization degrades inference performance?
Question:
In the QLoRA paper, the authors acknowledge that "4-bit quantization for inference is possible, but leads to performance degradation relative to 16-bit" and that previous quantization methods "only work for inference and break down during training." Yet they claim QLoRA with 4-bit NormalFloat matches both 16-bit full finetuning and 16-bit LoRA performance. How does adding LoRA adapters on top of a degraded 4-bit quantized model recover the performance lost during quantization? Is the adapter somehow learning to compensate for quantization errors, or is there a different mechanism at play? I'm having trouble understanding why finetuning would recover information that was apparently lost during quantization.
Answer:
The key to understanding QLoRA's performance recovery lies in distinguishing between quantization as a static operation and quantization combined with subsequent finetuning. When you quantize a model for inference only, the quantization errors are fixed—you are stuck with whatever degradation the discretization introduced, and there is no mechanism to correct for it. QLoRA, however, does not simply use the quantized model as-is; it adds trainable 16-bit LoRA adapters on top and finetunes them, which changes the situation fundamentally.

The crucial insight is that 4-bit quantization does not destroy information so much as introduce bounded perturbations to the weights. The pretrained model's learned representations are largely preserved, just with added noise. During QLoRA finetuning, gradients are backpropagated through the frozen 4-bit weights into the LoRA adapters, which are themselves stored and updated in 16-bit BFloat16 precision. The forward and backward passes also operate in 16-bit—the 4-bit weights are dequantized to BFloat16 before any computation occurs, as described in Equation 5 of the paper. This means the adapters are learning in a full-precision computation regime, even though the base weights are stored at 4-bit. The adapters can therefore learn corrections that effectively compensate for the systematic errors introduced by quantization, adjusting the model's behavior to recover the performance that was perturbed.

The paper found that this recovery depends critically on where adapters are placed. The authors discovered that applying LoRA only to attention query and value matrices—which was the standard practice—was insufficient to match full finetuning performance. Instead, they found that "LoRA on all linear transformer block layers are required to match full finetuning performance." By placing adapters at every linear layer, the model has enough corrective capacity at each point in the network to undo the local effects of quantization noise. The paper also notes that since LoRA parameters are so memory-efficient compared to activation gradients and the base model, adding these extra adapters incurs negligible memory cost while being essential for performance recovery.

Additionally, the specific quantization scheme matters. The NF4 data type is information-theoretically optimal for normally distributed weights, meaning it minimizes quantization error in the first place compared to FP4 or Int4. The paper shows that NF4 outperforms FP4, and QLoRA with FP4 still lags about 1 percentage point behind 16-bit LoRA on MMLU, whereas NF4 fully matches it. This suggests that part of the story is simply that NF4 introduces less error to recover from, making the adapter's job easier.

It is also worth noting that the paper does not claim all lost information is recovered—rather, they observe empirically that "the performance lost due to the imprecise quantization can be fully recovered through adapter finetuning after quantization." The mechanism is not that the adapters reconstruct the exact original weights, but that they learn adjustments sufficient to restore the model's task performance to 16-bit levels. The authors themselves note this is a surprising finding and raise "the question of where the performance-precision trade-off exactly lies for QLoRA tuning," leaving exploration of more aggressive quantization (e.g., 3-bit) to future work.