\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### Why does the paper recommend Elo ratings over absolute scoring for chatbot evaluation?
Question:
The paper uses both absolute scoring (GPT-4 assigns scores out of 10) and Elo ratings from pairwise comparisons, but ultimately recommends Elo ratings because the absolute scoring method has "very wide confidence intervals" due to "the lack of clear specification of scale." I understand Elo ratings come from pairwise tournament-style comparisons, but how exactly does this avoid the problem of subjective scale? Also, the paper mentions using $K=32$ and repeating the procedure 10,000 times with different random seeds. Why is $K=32$ chosen, and why does the ordering of matches matter if we're repeating 10,000 times? Is there a risk that the Elo ratings are sensitive to which pairs of models are compared first?
Answer:
The core advantage of Elo ratings over absolute scoring is that pairwise comparisons only require a relative judgment rather than an absolute one. When GPT-4 or a human annotator assigns a score out of 10 to a response, the meaning of, say, a "7" is inherently ambiguous—does it mean "good but not great" or "decent with some flaws"? This meaning may shift depending on the prompt, the quality of the other response in the prompt, or simply the rater's internal calibration at that moment. The paper hypothesizes that this lack of a clearly specified scale is what produces the "very wide confidence intervals" seen in Table~\ref{tbl:vicuna_eval}, where many models' performance ranges overlap substantially.

In contrast, the Elo system asks a much simpler question: which of these two responses is better (or is it a tie)? This binary (or ternary) judgment does not require the rater to ground their assessment on any absolute scale. The rater does not need to decide what "7 out of 10" means; they only need to compare two responses side by side. Because relative comparisons are more cognitively grounded and consistent across scenarios than absolute point assignments, the resulting rankings are more stable and interpretable. The Elo algorithm then aggregates many such pairwise judgments into a single rating that reflects each model's expected win rate against any other model, which is a well-defined and meaningful quantity.

Regarding $K=32$: this is a standard value used in many Elo implementations (originally popularized in chess rating systems). The $K$-factor controls how much each individual match affects a player's rating—a higher $K$ makes ratings more volatile and responsive to recent results, while a lower $K$ makes ratings more stable. The value $K=32$ represents a common balance between responsiveness and stability, and the paper adopts it without extensive justification, likely as a well-established convention.

The ordering of matches matters because the Elo algorithm updates ratings sequentially after each match. When two models compete, the rating change depends on the current ratings of both models: an upset (a lower-rated model beating a higher-rated one) produces a larger rating change than an expected outcome. This means that if Model A plays its first match against a strong opponent while still at the initial rating of 1,000, the outcome affects the ratings differently than if Model A had already played several matches and established a different rating. The sequence of matches thus influences the trajectory of each model's rating and potentially the final ranking.

To mitigate this sensitivity, the paper repeats the entire Elo computation 10,000 times with different random seeds, each time randomly sampling and ordering the set of labeled comparisons. By averaging the resulting Elo ratings across these 10,000 runs, the ordering effects wash out—any particular ordering is just one of 10,000, and the central tendency of the distribution of final ratings is what gets reported. This is the same approach used by \citet{vicuna2023}. So yes, any single run of the Elo computation is indeed sensitive to match ordering, but the 10,000-fold repetition with randomized orderings is precisely the mechanism designed to eliminate that sensitivity from the final reported results.