\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### Why is there orthogonality between MMLU and Vicuna chatbot benchmark performance?
Question:
The paper finds that "strong Massive Multitask Language Understanding (MMLU) benchmark performance does not imply strong Vicuna chatbot benchmark performance and vice versa" and that "dataset suitability matters more than size for a given task." If MMLU covers 57 tasks including mathematics, history, computer science, and law, wouldn't a model that excels at these knowledge tasks also be better at chatbot conversations that may reference this knowledge? What fundamental difference in capabilities do these two benchmarks measure? Is the orthogonality due to the finetuning data being specialized (e.g., FLAN v2 for MMLU vs. OASST1 for chat), or is it something deeper about what each benchmark actually tests?
Answer:
The orthogonality between MMLU and Vicuna benchmark performance arises from a combination of dataset specialization during finetuning and fundamental differences in what each benchmark actually measures, with the paper providing evidence for both factors.

At the surface level, the paper makes a strong case that dataset suitability drives the orthogonality. The key observation is that FLAN v2, which consists largely of academic-style question-answer and multiple-choice tasks, is structurally similar to MMLU (itself a multiple-choice benchmark covering 57 academic subjects). When LLaMA models are finetuned on FLAN v2, they perform particularly well on MMLU but perform worst on the Vicuna benchmark among the datasets tested. Conversely, OASST1, a crowd-sourced dataset of multi-turn conversational dialogues, produces models that excel on the Vicuna and OA chatbot benchmarks but do not dominate on MMLU. The paper explicitly states that "the performance of these benchmarks likely depends how similar the finetuning data is to the benchmark dataset," and gives the example that "FLAN v2 is similar to MMLU, but dissimilar to chatbot benchmarks and vice versa for the Chip2 dataset." This suggests that the format and distribution of the finetuning data aligns the model toward the evaluation format, creating the observed orthogonality.

However, there is a deeper reason rooted in what the two benchmarks fundamentally test. MMLU measures factual knowledge and reasoning across academic domains—it asks the model to select correct answers from multiple choices in subjects like mathematics, history, computer science, and law. This rewards knowledge retention and the ability to discriminate between answer options. The Vicuna and OA benchmarks, by contrast, measure open-ended conversational quality: whether a model can follow instructions in a multi-turn dialogue, produce helpful and coherent free-form responses, and engage naturally with a user. A model can possess vast academic knowledge (performing well on MMLU) while being poor at formatting responses conversationally or following nuanced instructions, and vice versa—a model can be an excellent conversationalist while lacking depth in specialized academic subjects. The paper hints at this distinction when it asks, "Do we want to create models that do well on classroom highschool and colleague knowledge or do we want to do well on chatbot conversation ability?"

The data quality finding reinforces this interpretation. The paper shows that OASST1, with only about 9,000 samples, outperformed FLAN v2 (subsampled from 450,000 samples) on chatbot benchmarks. This demonstrates that having data that matches the target task distribution matters far more than raw dataset size. A small, high-quality conversational dataset produces a better chatbot than a large academic instruction dataset, even though the latter might contain more total knowledge.

In summary, the orthogonality is not merely an artifact of which finetuning dataset was used. It reflects a genuine distinction between two capability dimensions: academic knowledge discrimination (MMLU) versus conversational instruction following (Vicuna/OA). The finetuning dataset acts as a lens that focuses the model's capabilities toward one dimension or the other, but the dimensions themselves are partially independent. The paper's broader point is that the community should be intentional about which dimension it is optimizing for, since benchmarks can implicitly steer research in a particular direction—and as the paper notes, "current chatbot benchmarks are not trustworthy to accurately evaluate the performance levels of chatbots," making it all the more important to understand what is actually being measured.