\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### What makes 4-bit NormalFloat "information theoretically optimal" for normally distributed weights?
Question:
The paper claims that the NF4 data type is "information theoretically optimal for normally distributed weights" and ensures that "each quantization bin has an equal number of values assigned from the input tensor." I understand that quantile quantization maps quantiles of the input distribution to evenly spaced quantization levels, but why does having equal numbers of values per bin make the quantization "information theoretically optimal"? Is this related to minimizing quantization error, minimizing entropy of the quantized representation, or some other information-theoretic criterion? The paper doesn't explicitly state which optimality criterion is being used.
Answer:
The information-theoretic optimality of NF4 stems from the principle that a fixed-bit quantizer is optimal when each quantization level is used with equal probability, which maximizes the entropy of the quantized representation.

When you quantize a continuous distribution into $2^k$ discrete levels using $k$ bits, the maximum possible entropy of the quantized output is $k$ bits per symbol — achieved only when every quantization bin is equally likely. If some bins receive more values than others, the entropy drops below $k$ bits, meaning some of your $k$ bits are effectively wasted representing rarely-used quantization levels. Quantile quantization, on which NF4 is built, ensures each bin has equal probability mass by construction. The quantization boundaries are placed at the quantiles of the input distribution so that each bin captures an equal fraction of the probability density. For a normally distributed input, this means bins are more densely packed near zero (where most values lie) and more sparsely placed in the tails. This guarantees that the quantized output has maximum entropy $H = k$ bits per symbol, meaning all available bit patterns are used equally and no information capacity is wasted.

This is distinct from minimizing mean squared quantization error (MSE), which is the criterion optimized by the Lloyd-Max quantizer. The Lloyd-Max and quantile quantizers generally produce different quantization boundaries for non-uniform distributions. The paper's use of "information theoretically optimal" specifically refers to the entropy/efficiency criterion, not MSE minimization.

NF4 makes this practical by observing that pretrained neural network weights are approximately zero-mean normal (see Appendix of the paper), so the quantiles of $N(0,1)$ can be pre-computed exactly. The weight tensor is then simply rescaled to fit $[-1, 1]$, and the pre-computed quantile boundaries apply directly. This avoids the expensive runtime quantile estimation that made general quantile quantization impractical, while still achieving the information-theoretic optimum for the assumed distribution. The asymmetric construction with an exact zero representation ensures no error for zero-valued elements like padding, which would otherwise be a significant source of quantization noise.