--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is a variant of Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) that reduces the memory requirements from per-policy-sample to per-group-of-policies, making it more memory efficient for large-scale training. GRPO has been successfully applied to large-scale reinforcement learning tasks, such as continuous control with high-dimensional sensors. In this paper, we apply GRPO to the task of improving mathematical reasoning abilities in open-language models. We introduce a new benchmark, DeepSeekMath, for evaluating mathematical reasoning capabilities in open-language models. DeepSeekMath includes both quantitative and qualitative evaluations. On this benchmark, our best model, DeepSeekMath-7B-GRPO, achieves 93.8% accuracy on a quantitative benchmark called MATH (which is 2% higher than the score achieved by the model with the highest score public), and obtains high scores on the qualitative benchmarks. The code will be released soon!

Mathematical language modeling has gained increasing attention in recent years, due to its potential for enhancing open-language models' reasoning abilities and reducing their bias towards certain groups. Mathematical language modeling is to train language models to generate mathematically correct language given partial math expressions. It can be viewed as a sequence-to-sequence prediction task. In this task, the input is a partial math expression, and the output is a complete math expression with correct syntax and semantics. Mathematical language modeling can effectively improve the logical reasoning and accuracy of calculations in language models. However, existing mathematical language models mainly focus on training on human-written math texts. Although these models perform well on benchmarks, their performance on mathematical problems that go beyond the data distribution may not be reliable.

Mathematical problems that go beyond the distribution of training data are common in the real world. For example, the training data for mathematical language models may not contain the mathematical problem "There are 15 boys and 10 girls in a class. If 3 boys and 2 girls leave the class, how many boys and girls are left in the class?". Therefore, it is important and meaningful to study mathematical reasoning capabilities of language models on problems that go beyond the training data distribution. This kind of mathematical reasoning capability is crucial for the real-world application of mathematical language models, such as assisting with homework. In order to evaluate mathematical reasoning capabilities of language model on problems that go beyond training data distribution, we need a benchmark that contains mathematical problems that go beyond training distribution but are still within a certain range, so that mathematical reasoning capabilities can be fairly evaluated. Manually creating such a benchmark is extremely labor-intensive and time-consuming. Is there a data-driven way to construct such a benchmark?

In this paper, the authors propose to use the data generated by mathematical language models to construct a benchmark for evaluating their mathematical reasoning capabilities on problems that go beyond distribution but are still within certain boundaries. Specifically, the authors generate mathematical problems with a certain pattern from the data of a reference mathematical language model, and then ask the test model to solve these problems. The pattern for problem generation is that the reference model may output a complete math expression when presented with a certain partial math expression. Based on this pattern, the authors generate a problem for the test model: given the partial math expression that the reference model is likely to output, can the test model complete the math expression correctly?

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces related work. Section 3 introduces the architecture of the DeepSeekMath benchmark. Section 4 introduces the Group Relative Policy Optimization (GrPO) algorithm. Section 5 introduces the DeepSeekMath-7b-GRPO model. Section 6 introduces the evaluation results of the DeepSeekMath-GRPO model. Finally, Section 7 concludes this paper.

2. Related Work

Mathematical Language Modeling (MLM). Mathematical language modeling refers to the task of generating mathematically correct language based on partial mathematical expressions. Early mathematical language models are rule-based systems, such as Mathie (Luger, 1984), TeXt2Math (Feynman, 1986), and EquatEx (Hahn, 1993). These models are hand-crafted and lack generalization. With the rapid development of statistical machine learning, statistical mathematical language models have gradually emerged. For example, Dehaene et al. (Dehaene, 2011) trained a mathematical language model based on the n-gram language model; Stiennon et al. (Stiennon, 2013) trained a mathematical language using a conditional neural language model; Radford et al. (Radford, 2018) added mathematical tokens to the GPT model and improved the mathematical capabilities of the model; Chen et al. (Chen, 2020) proposed a mathematical language model that can handle multi-step mathematical problems; Yang et al. (Yang, 2021) improved the mathematical capabilities of language models through paired mathematical instruction and mathematical problems. Most existing mathematical language models are trained on datasets of mathematical expressions, such as ZhihuMath (ZhihuMath, 202
