--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. The paper is about finetuning a pretrained model to improve its performance on a downstream task. The authors use a finetuning objective that is a linear combination of the original model's parameters and a parameterized orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix is parameterized by a parameterized orthogonal matrix, which is a parameterized orthogonal matrix that is parameterized by a matrix. The authors use a parameterized orthogonal matrix to parameterize the orthogonal matrix that is parameterizing the orthogonal matrix that is being parameterized by a matrix.

The paper is about parameter-efficient finetuning. The authors use a linear combination of the pretrained model's parameters and a linear combination of the orthogonal matrix's parameters. The authors use a matrix to parameterize the matrix that is parameterizing a parameterized orthogonal matrix.

The paper is not about parameter-efficient finetunning. The paper is about parameter-efficient parameterization. The paper is about using a parameterized orthogonal matrix as a parameter for a parameterized orthogonal matrix parameterized by a matrix, which is a matrix parameterized by a parameter.

The paper is about using a matrix to parameterize a parameterized orthogonal matrix and using a parameterized orthogonal parameter to parameterize a parameter. The paper is about a parameterized orthogonal matrix being parameterized by a parameter and a parameterized orthogonal parameter being parameterized by a vector.

The paper is about a parameter being parameterized by another parameter and a parameter being parameterized. The paper is about the parameter being parameterized by the parameter and the parameter being parameterized.<|endoftext|>
