--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a straightforward and effective finetuning technique that can be applied to any pretrained diffusion model. The OFT approach is based on the idea of learning an orthogonal transformation for each neuron, which is then applied to the neuron's weights. This approach is simple to implement and does not require any additional computational resources. The OFT approach can be used to finetune text-to-image diffusion models, and it can also be used to finetuning models for downstream tasks. The OFT approach has been shown to be more effective than LoRA and standard finetuning approaches. The OFT approach also has the advantage of being computationally efficient and easy to implement. The OFT approach does not require any additional parameters, and it can be applied to any diffusion model. The OF.T approach is a simple and effective finetuning method that can be used to finitely tune text-to-image diffusion models. The OFT approach preserves the geometric properties of neurons, which is important for maintaining the semantic information in the images. The OFT approach outperforms LoRA and standard finituning approaches in terms of both performance and computational efficiency. The OFT approach requires no additional parameters and can be applied to any text-to-image diffusion model. The OF. T approach is a simple and efficient finetuning method that is easy to implement and does not add any computational overhead. The OFT approach maintains the geometric properties of neurons and is therefore more effective than LoRA or standard finetuning approaches for text-to-image diffusion models.

A.1.1.1. Additional results for controllable generation

We provide additional results for controllable generation in Table 7. We observe that OFT achieves the best performance in terms of both controllability and diversity. We also provide additional results for the control of the number of objects in Figure 7. We observe from the results that OFT is able to maintain the number of objects in the generated images, while LoRA and standard finentuning fail to do so.

A.1.2. Additional results for controllability

We provide additional results on controllability in Table 8. We observe that OF.T achieves the best performance in both controllability and image quality.

A.1.3. Additional results for downstream tasks

We provide additional results in Table 9 for the CLIP-FS and CLIP-FFHQ datasets. We observe that OF. T achieves the best performance in all downstream tasks.

A.1.4. Additional results for text-to-image generation

We provide additional qualitative results for text-to-image tasks in Figure 8. We observe from the qualitative results that OFT is capable of generating images with high quality and controllability.

A.1.5. Additional results for controlling the number of objects

We provide additional results of controlling the number of objects in Table 10. We observe that OF .T is able to maintain a consistent number of objects in the images, while LoRA fails to do so.

A: Additional results for controllable text-to-image generation. We provide additional results for controllability in Table 8. We observe that the OFT approach achieves the best performance in controllability and image fidelity. We also provide additional qualitative results for controllable text generation in Figure 8. We observe from these results that OFT is effective at generating images with high quality, controllability, and diversity.<|endoftext|>
