--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a method for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models that maintains the pairwise angular relationships between neurons. The authors demonstrate that OFT can achieve superior performance in both controllable and unconditional generation scenarios. Furthermore, they introduce Orthogonal Finetuning for Control (OFC), which extends OFT to incorporate additional control signals. This approach is evaluated on various text-to-image diffusion architectures, including Stable Diffusion v1.5, DreamBooth v2, and GLIDE, across diverse control settings. The outcomes indicate that OFT and OFC consistently outperform established techniques, including LoRA and standard finetuning, in terms of both controllability and fidelity.

Now, let's dive into the details of the OFT method. At its core, OFT is designed to maintain the pairwise angular relationships between neuron pairs during finetuning. To clarify, the cosine similarity between two neurons represents their angular similarity. For a given layer L in the pretrained network, OFT computes a transformation matrix per neuron, resulting in updated weights that are a function of the original weights and the transformation matrix. Specifically, for a neuron i with weight vector wi, the transformed weight vector is calculated as follows:

wi→^ = wi * Ri

Here, Ri denotes the orthogonal transformation matrix associated with neuron i. To ensure the orthogonality of these matrices, the authors propose using the Cayley parameterization, which guarantees orthogonal matrices while remaining efficient to optimize. Additionally, to fix the norm of each neuron, an element-wise scaling is applied to the resulting matrix. Concretely, the forward computation is expressed as:

Ri → siRi, where si=√||Ri||

In order to initialize the orthogonal matrices with identity matrices, a learnable scaling parameter is incorporated. This strategy allows for better preservation of the pretrained features. Pseudocode for OFT can be found in Algorithm 1.

To further enhance adaptability, the authors introduce a Coherent Finetuning (CFT) strategy. CFT seeks to constrain the mean cosine similarity across all neuron pairs to be consistent before and after finetuning. While OFT already inherently maintains pairwise angular relationships, incorporating the CFT constraint has been empirically shown to boost results. The total loss function for OFT, incorporating both the data likelihood and the CFT constraint, is formulated as:

L(OFT) = LL(data|model^(OFT)) + λCL(CFT)

Where LL(data|model^(<|endoftext|>
