--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on butterfly parameterization. BOFT is a straightforward extension of OFT, which is a widely used and effective finetuning technique. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly parameterization. BOft is a straightforward extension of the OFT, which is an effective and widely used finetuning technique. The BOFT approach is based on the butterfly parameterization, which is a well-known technique for constructing sparse matrices. The butterfly parameterization is a well-known technique that is used to create sparse matrices. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is constructed by recursively multiplying a sparse matrix with a block-diagonal matrix. The butterfly structure is constructed by recursively multiplying two sparse matrices. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that can be constructed by multiplying a sparse matrix with another sparse matrix. The butterfly matrix is constructed by multiplying two sparse matrices. This method is parameter-efficient because it only requires a small number of trainable parameters. The butterfly matrix is parameter-efficient because it is constructed by multiplying two matrices that have a small number of trainable elements. The butterfly matrix is composed of a small number of trainable components. The butterfly matrix is made up of a small number of parameters that are trainable. The butterfly matrix is created by multiplying two matrices that each have a small number of parameters. The butterfly matrix has a small number of trainable weights. The butterfly matrix is built by multiplying two matrices that both have a small number of weights. The butterfly matrix has only a small number of trainable values. The butterfly matrix is formed by multiplying two matrices that are both sparse. The butterfly matrix is comprised of a small number of weights that are trainable. The BOFT approach uses a butterfly matrix to construct a dense orthogonal matrix, which is then used to update the weights of the model. The butterfly matrix is used to create a dense orthogonal matrix, and this matrix is then used to update model weights. The butterfly matrix can be used to create a dense matrix that is orthogonal. The butterfly matrix is utilized to create a dense orthogonal transformation matrix. The butterfly matrix can also be used to create a sparse orthogonal matrix. The butterfly matrix creates a dense orthogonal matrix, but it can also be used to generate a sparse orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a method for finetuning large models that is both parameter-efficient and computationally efficient. BOFT is a technique for finetuning large neural network models that is both parameter- and computationally-efficient. BOFT is a finetuning technique that can be used to adapt large models while also being computationally efficient. BOft is a method for finetting large models that is both computationally and parameter-efficient. BOFT is an efficient finetuning technique that allows for the adaptation of large models. BOFT is a computationally efficient finetuning technique for large models. BOFT can be used to finetune large models while also being parameter-efficient. BOFT can be utilized to finetune large neural network models while also being computaionally efficient. BOFT is an effective and efficient finetuning technique. This paper presents a new finetuning technique called BOFT, which is both parameter-efficient and efficient. BOFT is both parameter-efficient and effective. BOFT is a new finetuning method that is both parameter-efficient as well as computationally efficient. BOFt is a new finetuing technique that is both parameter-efficient, as well as computationally-efficient. BOft is a new finetunning technique that is both parameter- as well as computationally- efficient. BOFT is the first method that is both parameter- efficient and computationally efficient. This paper presents a novel finetuning technique called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft), which is both parameter-efficient as wel as computationally efficient. The BOFT approach can be used to finett large models while also being both parameter-efficient and computaionally efficient.

A. Orthogonal Finetuning
Orthogonal finetuning (OFT), which was introduced in (Hulora et al., 2022), is a method for adapting large pretrained models. The OFT approach is based on the idea of learning a transformation matrix that is orthogonal, which is then applied to the pretrained weights. The OFT approach learns a transformation matrix that is both orthogonal and trainable. The OFT approach uses a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix to reduce the number of trainable parameters. OFT is a method for finettng large models that is both efficient and effective. OFT is a technique for finettng large neural network models that are both efficient and effective. The OFT approach can be used to adapt a large pretrained model while also being computationally and parameter-efficient.

B. Butterfly Parameterization
The butterfly parameterization is a method for constructing a dense matrix from a product of two sparse matrices. The sparse matrices are constructed by recursively multiplying a matrix with a block-diagonl matrix. The butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix, is constructed by recursively multiplying another sparse matrix with a blockdiagonal matrix.
