--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data transmission structure that is used in communication systems. The butterfly structure is used in BOFT to create a sparse matrix that is then multiplied with the original model's weight matrix to produce a new, finetuned model. The butterfly structure is constructed by decomposing a matrix into a product of sparse matrices. BOFT is able to achieve parameter efficiency by using a sparse matrix to modify the original model's weight matrices. The butterfly structure is utilized to create a sparse matrix, which is then multiplied with the weight matrix to produce a finetuned model. BOFT is able, in this way, to achieve parameter efficiency. The butterfly structure is composed of a series of sparse matrices that are multiplied together to form a dense matrix. The butterfly structure is created by decomposing a dense matrix into a product of several sparse matrices. BOFT uses a butterfly structure to create a sparse matrix for finetuning. The butterfly structure is made up of a series of sparse matrix multiplications. BOFT is able of parameter efficiency because it uses a sparse matrix to modify a weight matrix. The butterfly structure, which is a sparse matrix multiplication, is used to create a sparse matrix. The butterfly structure can be used to create a sparse weight matrix, which can then be multiplied with the original weight matrix to produce a sparse weight matrix. BOFT is able because it uses a sparse weight matrix to modify the original weight matrix. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that is constructed using the butterfly structure. The sparse matrix is constructed by multiplying several sparse matrices together. BOFT is able parameter efficiency because it uses the butterfly matrix to modify the original matrix. The butterfly matrix can be used to create sparse weight matrices, which can then be used to modify the original weight matrices. BOFT is capable of parameter efficiency because it employs sparse weight matrices to modify the original weight. The butterfly matrix is constructed using the butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrix consists of a series of sparse weight matrices. BOFT achieves parameter efficiency by using the butterfly matrix to modify a weight. The butterfly matrix can also be used to create sparse matrices, which can then modify the original matrices. BOFT is effective because it uses sparse matrices to modify the original matrices. The butterfly matrix is created using the butterfly matrix. BOFT is effective at parameter efficiency because it uses sparse matrices for finetuning. BOFT is able by using the butterfly matrix for finetuning to achieve parameter efficiency. BOFT is able finetuning because it uses the butterfly structure to create a matrix that is then used for finetuning. In order to achieve parameter efficiency, BOFT uses the butterfly matrix for finnetuning. BOFT is effective finetuning because it employs the butterfly matrix for finenetuning. BOFT is capable finetuning because it utilizes the butterfly matrix for finenituning. BOFT is efficient finetuning because it makes use of the butterfly matrix for finentuning. BOFT is successful finetuning because it takes advantage of the butterfly matrix for fine tuning. BOFT is effective fine tuning because it makes use of a butterfly matrix for fine tuning.

The butterfly structure is a well-established data transmission structure that is utilized in communication systems. The structure of the butterfly is a well-known data transfer structure that is used in communications systems. The butterfly structure, as a data transmission structure, is used in communications systems to transmit data. The butterfly structure is also used in BOFT to construct a sparse matrix that is used to modify the original model. The butterfly structure, a data transmission structure, can be used to construct a sparse matrix for modifying the original model. The sparse matrix is created by the butterfly structure, which is used to modify the model. The butterfly structure can also be used to construct a weight matrix, which can be used to modify the weight matrix. BOFT achieves parameter-efficiency by using the butterfly structure to construct a sparse matrix, which can then modify a weight matrix. BOFT can achieve parameter efficiency by using the sparse matrix that is constructed by the butterfly structure to modify the weight matrix.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient fining-tuning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. BOFT is a parameter-efficient method for finetuning that is based on the Butterfly structure. BOFT is an efficient finetuning technique that uses the butterfly structure. BOft is a parameter-efficient fineting-tuning technique that is built on the butterfly structure. BOFt is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based off the butterfly structure. BOtF is a parameter-efficient finiting-tuning technique that is constructed on the butterfly structure. BOfT is a parameter-efficient fininting-tuning technique that uses the butterly structure. BOFT is ableto achieve parameter efficiency by usingthe butterfly structure to create a spar matrix, which can thenbe used to modify the original matrix.

BOFT is able to achieveparameter efficiency by using the butterfly structureto create a sparse matrix,which can then be used tomodify
