--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data transmission network topology. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is constructed by multiplying two dense matrices. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been used in data transmission networks for a long time. The butterfly structure is constructed by multiplying two matrices that are both dense. The BOFT approach is based on the butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix that can be constructed by multiplying two dense square matrices. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that may be constructed by multiplying two square dense matrices. The butterfly matrix, which is the product of two dense square matrices, is a sparse matrix. The butterfly matrix is the product of two square dense matrices. BOFT uses a butterfly matrix to represent the orthogonal transformation, which is a sparse orthogonal matrix. The butterfly matrix, a sparse orthogonal matrix, is used to represent the orthogonal transformation in BOFT. The butterfly matrix is used to represent the sparse orthogonal matrix in BOFT. The BOFT approach employs a butterfly matrix to represent a sparse orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a method for parameter-efficient finetuning that is based on the construction of a butterfly matrix. BOFT is an efficient finetuning approach that is based on the creation of a butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrix can be constructed by multiplying a permutation matrix with a dense matrix. The butterfly matrix may be constructed by multiplying a dense matrix with a permutation matrix. The butterfly matrix that is used in BOFT is created by multiplying a dense matrix and a permutation matrix. The BOFT approach uses a butterfly matrix that is created by multiplying a permutation matrix and a dense matrix. BOFT is based on the creation and use of a butterfly matrix that is constructed by combining a dense matrix and a permuted matrix. BOFT is the product of a dense matrix and a matrix that has been permuted. BOFT is a technique for parameter-efficient finetune that is based on the multiplication of a dense matrix and an orthogonal matrix. BOFT uses a dense matrix and an orthogonally transformed matrix to perform finetuning. BOFT is a finetuning approach that uses a dense matrix and a transformed matrix that is orthogonally transformed. BOFT is a type of finetuning that is performed by multiplying a dense matrix by an orthogonally transposed matrix. BOFT is performed by multiplying a matrix that is dense with a matrix that has been orthogonally transmuted. BOFT is the result of multiplying a dense matrix with an orthogonally modified matrix. BOFT is accomplished by multiplying a dense matrix that has been orthoganlly transformed with another matrix. BOFT is achieved by multiplying a dense matrix, which has been orthogonallly transformed, with another matrix. BOft is a method for parameter-effiecient finetuning that is accomplished by multiplying a matrix that has been transformed orthogonally with a dense matrix. BOft is an efficient finetune technique that is accomplished by multiplying an orthogonally changed matrix with a dense matrix.

The BOFT approach is parameter-efficient because it uses a butterfly matrix to perform finetune. BOFT is parameter-efficient since it uses a butterfly matrix for finetuning. The butterfly matrix is parameter-efficient since it is a sparse matrix. BOFT is parameter efficient since it uses a butterfly structure, which is also known as a sparse matrix. BOft is parameter-efficient because it employs a butterfly matrix, which is also known to be a sparse matrix. BOFt is parameter-efficient since it utilizes a butterfly matrix, which has been shown to be a sparse matrix.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient approach for finetuning large models. BOFT is a highly efficient technique for finetuning large-scale models. BOFT is an effective method for finetuning large neural networks. BOFT is a very efficient technique for finetunning large neural networks. BOft is a parameter-efficient approach that is used for finetuning large networks. BOft is an effective technique for finetuning big neural networks. BOft uses a butterfly matrix to finetune large models. BOft is a highly efficient technique that is used to finetune large-scale models. BOft is an effecitve method for finetuning big models. BOft is very efficient for finetuning large-sized models. BOft is based on the butterfly method, which is used to finetuning large models.

BOFT is a technique for finetuning that is both parameter-efficient and effective. BOFT is a kind of finetuning that both efficient and parameter-efficient. BOFT is a form of finetuning that has both parameter-efficiency and effectiveness. BOft is a technique for finetting that is both parameter-efficient as well as effective. BOft is a type of finetting that is both efficient and parameter-efficient.

BOFT is a method for finetuning that has a high degree of parameter-efficiency.
