--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data transmission structure that is used in communication systems. The butterfly structure is used in BOFT to create a sparse matrix that is then multiplied with the original model's weight matrix to produce a new, finetuned model. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a sparse matrix to finetune the original model's weights. The sparse matrix is constructed using a small number of trainable parameters. BOFT is a straightforward approach that is easy to implement and has a low computational cost. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is comparable to LoRA in terms of parameter efficiency. BOFT is a technique that is more parameter-efficient than LoRA. BOFT is a method that is more parameter-efficient and has a lower computational cost than LoRA. BOft is a technique that is comparable to OFT in terms of its ability to finetune large models. BOFT is a more parameter-efficient approach than OFT. BOFT is a simple approach that is comparable to the block-diagonal approach in terms of its ability. BOFT is a strategy that is more parameter-efficient. BOFT is a new technique that is comparable to the group-diagonal approach in terms. BOFT is a approach that is more parameter-efficient.

The butterfly structure is a well-established data transmission structure that is widely used in communication systems. It is a structure that is used to transmit data from one point to another. The butterfly structure is made up of a series of nodes that are connected to each other in a grid-like pattern. The nodes are connected to each other by edges. The nodes are connected by edges. The nodes can be connected to each other in two different ways. The nodes can be linked to each other in two ways. The nodes can either be linked to each other directly or indirectly. The nodes can either directly or indirectly. The edges that connect the nodes can either be direct or indirect. The edges that connect nodes can either be direct. The edges that connect to nodes can either be direct.

The butterfly structure is used in the BOFT method to create a sparse matrix. The sparse matrix is used to finetune the weights of the original model. The sparse matrix is created using a small number of parameters. The sparse matrix is made up of a small number of parameters that are used to finetune a large number of weights. The sparse matrix has a small number of parameters, but it is used to finetue a large number of weights in the original model. The butterfly structure is an efficient way to create a sparse matrix, which is used to finetun the weights of the original neural network model. The butterfly structure can be used to create a sparse matrix with a small number of parameters.

The butterfly structure is an efficient method for creating a sparse matrix. The butterfly structure is efficient because it uses a small number of parameters to create a sparse matrix for finetuning the weights of a large model. The butterfly structure uses a small number of trainable weights to finetune a larger number of weights in the model. The butterfly structure has a small number of trainable weight parameters, but it is able to finetune a much larger number of weights in a large model. The sparse matrix that is created using the butterfly structure is used to finetuen the weights of the original large model. The sparse matix is created using a small set of trainable parameters. The sparse matrix has fewer parameters than the original model, but it is ableto finetune the weights in the original model.

The butterfly structure is able to create a sparse matrix using a small number of parameter. The sparse matrix is then used to finetune weights in the original model, which is a large model. The BOFT method is able to finetun a large model using a small number of paramters. The BOFT method uses a small number of paramteres to finetune a larg model. The BOFT approach is able to finetuen a large model using a smal number of parameters. The BOFT method can finetune a large model using a few parameters. The BOFT approach can finetune a largemodel using a small number ofparameters. The BOFT methodcan finetune a large modle using a small number ofparamters. The BOFT approachcan finetune a largemodel using a small number ofparameter.

The butterfly structure is efficient because the sparse matrix that is created is able to finetue the weights of the original, large model. The sparse matrices that are created using the butterfly structure are able to finetune the large model's weights. The butterfly structure is able to finetu the weights of the large model using a small set of parameters. The butterfly structure is capable of finetuning the weights in the large model using a few paramters. The butterfly structure is capabale of finetuning the large model's weights using a small number of params. The butterfly structure iscapable of
