--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs" presents a novel and efficient method for training large models, QLoRA, which drastically reduces memory usage compared to standard 16-bit finetuning. QLoRA is a method for training quantized LLMs with low memory usage. It can reduce the memory usage of a 7B LLaMA from 64GB to 12GB, and the memory usage of a trained 65B LLaMA from more than 256GB to 48GB. This is possible because QLoRA uses a block-wise training approach, where the model parameters are divided into blocks that are trained separately. This way, only a small subset of the model parameters needs to be kept in memory at any given time. In addition, QLoRA uses low-precision quantization, which further reduces the memory footprint. As a result, QLoRA makes it possible to train much larger models than before, even on a single GPU. The paper also includes experiments showing that QLoRA can match or even improve the performance of full-precision finetuning. For example, it shows that a 65B LLaMa finetuned with QLoRA 4 can perform sequence prediction as well as a full-precision 70B LLaMa. In addition, the paper includes experiments showing that Q LoRA can be used for effective finetuning of pretrained LLMs. For example, it finetunes a 13B LLM to the task of code search and shows that it can perform competitively with a full-precision 34B baseline. All in all, this paper presents a very exciting and practical method for training large quantized LLMs. The code and a 13B QLoRA model finetuned on code search are available at https://github.com/artidoro/qlora.

Formal Definition of QLoRA
In this section, we give a formal definition of QLoRA. We assume that the reader is familiar with standard full-precision finetunig and refer the reader to (Henderson et al., 2022) for more details. In high-level, QLoRA works by dividing the model parameters into blocks that are trained sequentially. Each block is represented using low-bit quantization and is trained for a certain number of steps. After all blocks have been trained for the specified number of steps, the process is repeated with a new set of blocks. This way, a subset of the model parameters is always kept in memory, while the rest of the parameters is stored on disk and loaded into memory when needed. In the following, we first give an informal definition of QLoRA and then proceed to give a formal definition.

Informal Definition
The informal definition of QLoRa is as follows: 1. Divide the model parameters into blocks. 2. For each block, sample a batch of tokens. 3. For each token in the batch, forwardpropagate the token through the block. 4. Compute the gradient of the loss with respect to the block parameters. 5. Update the block parameters using gradient descent with a learning rate that decays over time. 6. Repeat steps 2-5 for a certain number of training steps. 7. Go to step 1 and repeat the process with a new set of block. 8. Repeat steps 2 -7 until convergence.
We can see that QLoRA works by training a sequence of blocks, where each block is trained for a certain amount of time. This way, QLoRA reduces the memory usage compared to full-precision finetunning, where all model parameters need to be kept in memory. In addition, Q LoRA uses low-bit quantization, which further reduce the memory footprint. However, QLoRA has a few important differences from standard full-precision finetting. First, in QLoRA, the gradients are computed block-wise, which means that only the gradients for the current block need to be stored in memory. Second, in QLoRA the learning rate decays over time, which helps to stabilize the training. Third, in QLoRA it is possible to reuse the same blocks across different tasks, which can help to improve the efficiency of finetuning.

Formal Definition
We now give a formal definition of the QLoRA algorithm. We assume that the readers are familiar with standard full-precison finetuning and refer the readers to (Henderson, 2022) for a formal definition. The main difference between QLoRA and standard full-precision fineting is that in QLoRA, we divide the model parameters into blocks and train each block sequentially. We now give a formal definition for QLoRA.
Input: A pretrained LLM with parameter Θ, a block size b, a training task T , a learning rate schedule {lr(t)} t , and a number of training steps T .
1. Divide the parameter Θ into b blocks: 2. Sample a batch of tokens B from the training data for task T . 3. For each block i, sample a subset of tokens from B of size b. Let B i be the sampled tokens. 4. For each
