--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the motivation, and then I'll explain the main idea of the paper. Finally, I'll talk about the experiments and the results.

The motivation

The motivation of the paper is to reduce the number of trainable parameters in the finetuning stage. The finetuning stage is the stage where we train the pretrained model on our own data. In the finetuning stage, we usually use a small learning rate and train the model for a long time. The goal of the finetuning stage is to improve the performance of the pretrained model on our data. In the finituning stage, we usually change the learning rate schedule and the training strategy. For example, we may use a cosine learning rate schedule and train each layer for a different number of epochs. We may also use data augmentation and drop path to improve the performance of our model.

In the finetuning stage of large models, the number of trainable parameters is usually very large. For example, the number of trainable parameter of the pretrained GPT-3 model is about 70 billion. If we finetune the pretrained GPT-4 model on our own data, the number of trainable paramters will become even larger. The large number of trainable parameters in finetuning stage will bring a lot of problems. First, it will take a lot of time to train the model. Second, it will take a large amount of memory to store the model. Third, it will take a long time to evaluate the model. Fourth, it will take a very long time to deploy the model. Fifth, it will take a huge amount of money to buy the GPU to train the model. Sixth, it will take a big space to store the model. Seventh, it will take a high cost to deploy the model. Eighth, it will take a great effort to maintain the model. Ninth, it will take a significant amount of money to buy electricity to train the model. Tenth, it will take a considerable amount of money to buy gas to train the model. Eleventh, it will take a substantial amount of money to buy water to train the model. Twelfth, it will take a notable amount of money to buy land to train the model. Thirteenth, it will take a remarkable amount of money to buy air to train the model. Fourteenth, it will take an important amount of money to buy sunshine to train the model. Fifteenth, it will take some money to train the model. Sixteenth, it will take no money to train the model.

To solve the problem of the large number of trainable parameters, the paper proposes to use a parameter-efficient finetuning method. The parameter-efficient finetuning methods can reduce the number of trainable parameter without reducing the performance of the finetuned model. In the paper, the authors propose a parameter-efficient finetunig method called "Orthogonal Finetuning via factorization". The "Orthogonal Finetunig via factorization" can reduce the number of parameter by a large margin without reducing the performance of finetuned model.

The main idea of the paper

The main idea of the "Orthogonal Finetune via factorization" is to use a low-rank matrix to share the parameter of the linear layer. In the original finetuning method, each linear layer has its own parameter. For example, in the pretrained Transformer model, each linear layer has 3072 weight and 3072 bias. In the "Orthogonal Fineteuning via factorization" method, we can use a low-rank weight matrix and a low-rank bias matrix to share the parameter among several linear layers. For example, we can use a 64x3072 weight matrix and a 3072x3072 bias matrix to share the weight parameter of 4 linear layers. In this way, we can reduce the number of weight parameter by a factor of 4. Similarly, we can also use a low-rank bias matirx to share the bias parameter of several linear layers. By using a low-rank weight matirx and a low-rank bais matrix, we can reduce the total number of trainable parameter by a large margin.

To make the shared parameter orthogonal, the paper introduces a factorization trick. The factorization trick can guarantee that the shared parameter is orthogonal. By using the factorization trick, the performance of the "Orthogonal finetuning via factorization" is better than the original low-rank finetuning method.

The experiments and the results

The paper conducts extensive experiments on English language understanding (NLI), machine translation (En2Zh and Zh2En), and Q&A (SQuAD1.1 and SQuAD2.0) tasks. On all the tasks, the "Orthogonal Finetineg via factorization" achieves better performance than the original finetuning methods and other parameter-efficient finetuning methids. For example, on the machine translation task (En2Zh and zh2En), the "Orthogonal Finetimeg
