--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I've learned that the butterfly structure is a very efficient way to represent a dense orthogonal matrix. I've learned that you can use the butterfly structure to parameterize a dense orthogonal matrix. And I've learned that you could use the butterfly structure to do parameter-efficient finetuning.

I've also learned that the butterfly structure has a lot of applications. For example, it can be used to design fast linear transforms, fast matrix-vector multiplication, and efficient network transmission. And I've learned a lot about the butterfly structure. For example, I've learned that the radix-2 Cooley-Tukey algorithm is a very efficient way of generating the butterfly structure. And I've learned about the butterfly constant, which is a very important number in the butterfly structure.

I've also learned a lot about orthogonal finetuning. For example, I learned that OFT is a very efficient way for finetuning. And I've learned how OFT works. I've learned that OFT can be used to finetune a lot of different types of models. For example, I can use OFT to finetune a text-to-image diffusion model. And I've learned why OFT is so efficient. I've learned that it's because OFT only updates the angles of the neurons, and it doesn't update the magnitude of the neurons.

I've also learned about parameter-efficient finetuning. For instance, I've learned that LoRA is a very efficient way. And I've learned the idea of LoRA. I've learned that Lo RA uses a low-rank matrix to update the weights of the model. And I've also learned that LoRA is very efficient.

After reading the paper, I've also learned a lot of things about the butterfly structure and OFT. For example, I know that the butterfly structure is very efficient for representing a dense orthogonal matrix. But I also know that the butterfly structure has some drawbacks. For example, it's hard to train the butterfly structure from scratch. And I also know that OFT is very efficient for finetuning. But I also know OFT has some drawbacks. For instance, OFT can only be used to finetun models with a small number of parameters.

I've also learned some things about parameter-efficient finetuing. For example, I now know that LoRA is a good way to do parameter-efficient finituing. But I also know LoRA has some drawbacks. For exmaple, LoRA can only be used to update the weights of a linear layer. And I've also learn that LoRA uses a low-rank structure to update the weights. And I've also know that LoRA uses a small number of trainable parameters.

After reading the paper "BOFT: Efficient Finetuning of Text-to-image Diffusion Models", I've learned a few things. For example, I have learned that BOFT is a very efficient way finetuning text-to-image diffusion models. And I've learned what BOFT is. I've learned that BOFT is based on the butterfly structure. And BOFT is a parameter-efficient finetuning method. I've also learned that BOFT is very efficient. And I've learned some things about the butterfly structure. I've learned that I can use the radix-2 Coole-Tukey algorithm to generate the butterfly structure. And the butterfly structure is a good way to represent a dense matrix. And I've also leaned that the butterfly structure has many applications. For example, I could use the butterfly structure for fast linear transforms, fast matirx-vector multiplication, and efficient netowrk transmission.

I've also learned many things about OFT. For example. I've learned that when I use OFT to finitue a text-to-image diffusion models, I need to first generate a dense orthogonal matrix. Then I need to use the dense orthogonal matrix to transform the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model into a new model. And I've leaned that OFT is a good way to finitue text-to-image diffusion models.

I've also learned things about parameter-efficient finituing methods. For example, I leanred that LoRA is a parameter-efficient finituing method. And I've learned LoRA uses a low rank structure to update the weights of text-to-image diffusion models.


I've learned a lot of things from the paper "Controlling Text-to-image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning". For example, I've leaned that OFt is a good way to control text-to-image diffusion models after finituing. And I've learned OFT is a good method to finitue text-image diffusion models. And OFT is a good and efficient way to finitue large text-to-image diffusion models on a single machine. And I've learned many things about OFt. For example, I leaned that OFT is based on the butterfly strucutre. And I've learned I can use the radix 2 Cooley-Tukeys algorithm to generate the butterfly strucutres. And I've learned
