--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>PPO stands for Preferred Provider Organization. It is a type of health insurance plan that allows members to receive care from doctors and hospitals that are contracted with the plan. This means that the plan will pay a set amount for each service, which is called a "capitation." The capitation is usually lower than the average cost of the service, so the doctor or hospital will be paid less for each service. However, the plan will also pay a set amount for any services that are not covered by the capitation, which is called a copayment. This means that the doctor or hospital will receive a higher payment for each service that is not covered by the capitated amount.

For example, if a doctor charges $100 for a service and the capitation is $50, then the doctor will receive $50 for the service. However, if the doctor charges $200 for the same service and the capitation remains at $50, then the plan will pay $100 for the service. This means that the capitated amount is lower than the average cost, but the plan will still pay a higher amount for any services that the doctor or hospital charges more than the capitation.

In addition to the capitation and copayment, PPO plans also have a deductible. The deductible is the amount of money that the member must pay before the plan will begin to pay for the service. For example, if the deductible is $1,000, then the member must pay the first $1,000 of the service before the plan will begin paying. After the deductible is met, the plan will begin to cover 100% of the service.

PPO plans are often cheaper than other types of health insurance plans because they allow members to receive care from providers that are contracted with the insurance company. This means that the provider will receive a set amount for each visit, which is called a capitation. The capitation is usually less than the average cost of a service, so the provider will receive a lower payment for each visit. However, the plan also pays a set amount for any service that is not covered under the capitation, which means that the provider will still receive a higher payment for those services.<|endoftext|>
