--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective method for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models that prevents collapse while preserving the semantic space. The authors demonstrate the effectiveness of OFT in finetuning stable diffusion models and in few-shot setting. They also introduce a new benchmark, Controlled Diffusion Benchmark (CDB), to evaluate the controllability of text-to-image diffusion models.

The paper is well-written and easy to read. The experiments are comprehensive and convincing. The authors also provide an informative discussion. In general, I find this paper very interesting and it raises some exciting questions for the future study.

Strengths

1. The paper proposes a novel finetuning method, OFT, for text-to-image diffusion models. The experiments show that OFT is an effective method for finetuing stable diffusion models and achieves better performance than LoRA in few-shot setting.
2. The paper introduces a new benchmark, CDB, for evaluating the controllability of diffusion models. The results on CDB show that current diffusion models have many controllability issues and there is still a long way to go.
3. The paper provides an informative discussion and raises some interesting questions for the future study.
4. The code and benchmark are well-organized and easy to use.

Weaknesses

1. I would like to see more comparisons with other finetuning methods, such as group norm finetuning and learning rate scheduling.
2. How does the number of iteration for OFT affect the performance? The paper only reports the result of 1000 iteration.
3. What's the difference between orthogonal transformation and rotation? In Figure 7, the neuron transformed by OFT looks like a rotated version of the original neuron.
4. It will be interesting to compare OFT with rotation-based finetuning, such as RotatE.
5. Since OFT performs orthogonal transformation for all layers, does OFT also work for other types of models, such as vision-language models and text-to-text generative models?

My Recommendations

I have no major concerns about this paper. I strongly recommend acceptance.

Reviewer 2

Summary:

This paper presents a novel finetuning approach, OFT, for controlling text-to-image diffusion models, which can prevent collapse while preserving the semantic spaces. The authors also introduce a new benchmark for evaluating the controllabilty of text-to-image diffusion model. The experiments show that the OFT is an effective finetuning approach and the CDB can effectively evaluate the controllability.

Strengths:

1. The paper proposes an effective finetuning method, orthogonal finetuning, for controlling text-to image diffusion models.
2. The paper also proposes a new benchmark, C DB, for evaluating the controllable of text-to-image diffusion mode.

Weaknesses:

1. The paper only compares OFT with LoRA and the result shows OFT is better than LoRA in few-shots setting. It will be better to compare OFT with other finetuning approaches, such as group norm and learning rate scheduling.
3. How does the number iteration of OFT affect the performance?
4. What's the difference of orthogonal transformation and rotation? The neuron transformed by OFT in Figure 7 looks like a rotated version.
5. It will be interesting if we can compare OFT with rotation based finetuning, such RotatE.
6. Since OFT performs an orthogonal transformation for all layers. Does OFT also work for text-to-text generative model and vision-language model?

Recommendation:

I have no major concerns. I recommend acceptance after addressing the weakness.

Reviewer 3

Summary:

This paper proposes Orthogonal Finetuning, a neuron-level finetuning method for controlling text-to-image generation models. The proposed method prevents collapse during finetuning and preserves the semantic space. To evaluate the controllability for text-to-image models, the authors introduce a new benchmark, the Controlled Diffusion Benchmark (CDF). Experiments show that the controlled text-to-image models fail to generate images corresponding to the query in the benchmark. This paper is well-written and the experiments are comprehensive. The proposed Orthogonal Finetuning seems to be an effective finetuning strategy. The Controlled Diffusion Benchmark also provides a new way to evaluate the controllabilty for text-to-image models.

Weaknesses:

The paper only compares OFT to LoRA. It will be better if the paper can compare OFT with other state-of-the-art finetuning methods, e.g., group norm finetuning. How does the number iterations of OFT affect the result? What's the difference between the orthogonal transformation and rotation? It will be interesting if the paper can compare the OFT with rotation-based methods, such as Rotat E. Since OFT performs the orthogonal transformation for all layers of the model, does OFT also apply to text-to-text generative mode and vision-language models?

Recommendation:

I recommend acceptance after addressing the weaknesses.<|endoftext|>
