MCQA Suitability Filter — Williams_v_GoAuto_Insurance (facts v13 → v14)
============================================================
Total probes: 83
Suitable: 55
Rejected: 28

--- Probe 3 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after the plaintiffs challenged GoAuto’s policy-cancellation procedures in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana, the district court granted GoAuto’s motion for summary judgment and held that those procedures
Target: complied with state law.
Reason: Too generic phrase completion

--- Probe 6 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", describing APAC and GoAuto’s cancellation procedure before 2017, the opinion states that the documents were physically taken to the filing cabinet shared by GoAuto and APAC by
Target: an APAC employee.
Reason: Too generic; weak distractor space

--- Probe 7 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Plaintiffs’ argument about APAC’s certification and the timing of its signature was that, before any signature appears on APAC’s certification, the policy is
Target: canceled automatically.
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

--- Probe 11 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Plaintiffs contended that GoAuto never received
Target: a cancellation request.
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

--- Probe 13 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", when GoAuto’s computer system receives a premium finance company’s e-mailed notice in the early morning hours, it
Target: cancels the policy.
Reason: Too trivial action phrase; weak distractor space

--- Probe 14 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Plaintiffs asked the court to certify issues of statutory interpretation to the Louisiana Supreme Court, arguing that the proper interpretation of the statutory terms is important to Louisiana’s insurance industry and to the
Target: statutory scheme.
Reason: Trivial phrase completion; weak distractor space

--- Probe 16 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit said the appeal required it to analyze a Louisiana statute tied to nonpayment of premiums, and that statute governs
Target: the cancellation of insurance policies
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

--- Probe 20 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", in a case challenging the insurer’s cancellation procedures as violating a Louisiana nonpayment statute, the district court dismissed all of the claims
Target: with prejudice.
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

--- Probe 22 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins was involved in an accident with
Target: a third GoAuto insured, not a party here.
Reason: Too trivial/generic phrase completion

--- Probe 23 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", although a third GoAuto insured was involved in an accident with Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins, that insured was
Target: not a party here
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

--- Probe 29 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", when an insurance-premium finance company requests cancellation of a financed insurance policy after an uncured default, the premium finance agreement must contain a valid power of attorney as provided in
Target: Paragraph (1) of this Subsection.
Reason: Trivial phrase completion; weak distractor space

--- Probe 39 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", APAC’s request for cancellation states that the documents enclosed with the request are
Target: copies of the notices.
Reason: Trivial phrase completion; weak distractor space

--- Probe 49 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Louisiana court in Hodges allowed cancellation upon receipt of
Target: such notice of cancellation and statement from the premium finance company.
Reason: Trivial phrase completion; weak distractor space

--- Probe 55 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the statutory section says the insurance premium finance company effects cancellation by
Target: “certifying”
Reason: Too trivial single-word statutory verb

--- Probe 56 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", while Louisiana procedures for cancellation by a premium finance company require “‘Strict adherence’ to the procedures for cancellation,” that requirement is not an invitation for courts to
Target: add to the procedures
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

--- Probe 57 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after addressing whether Louisiana law required a signature on the premium finance company's cancellation notice, the court noted that Plaintiffs contended GoAuto never received a cancellation request. Plaintiffs argued the procedures at issue were
Target: GoAuto’s procedures
Reason: Too trivial; weak distractor space

--- Probe 58 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", under La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), upon receipt of the notice of cancellation and statement from the premium finance company, the insurer may proceed to
Target: cancel such contract.
Reason: Target implied by quoted statutory phrase

--- Probe 61 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Plaintiffs argued that GoAuto did not receive cancellation requests after 2017 because of how the requests were handled, and according to the Plaintiffs, the stamp on those requests is affixed by
Target: an APAC employee.
Reason: Target effectively restated in question

--- Probe 62 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the plaintiffs argued that Louisiana Revised Statute § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i) requires GoAuto to take possession of the cancellation notice before cancelling the policy because they relied on a particular word in the statute, namely
Target: “receipt”
Reason: Too trivial single common word

--- Probe 64 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Louisiana Supreme Court has not defined the term in La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), even though the statute itself also provides no definition, and that term is
Target: “receipt”
Reason: Too trivial generic single-word target

--- Probe 65 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the court noted that the Louisiana Supreme Court has not defined a term used in La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), and that the statute itself has no definition of
Target: “receipt” as used in the statute
Reason: Too trivial single-word legal term

--- Probe 66 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", once GoAuto takes possession, delivery, or custody of a request for cancellation, it may
Target: cancel a policy
Reason: Target strongly implied by question wording

--- Probe 67 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", once the e-mailed notice is received in the early morning hours by GoAuto’s computer system, the policy is canceled by
Target: GoAuto’s computer system.
Reason: Target appears verbatim in question

--- Probe 69 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the opinion quotes a GoAuto deponent describing how the APAC computer system interacts with a GoAuto web service during the cancellation process, and according to that description, the web service was
Target: always listening, waiting to be called
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

--- Probe 71 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after the GoAuto computer system effects cancellation, any person becomes involved in the cancellation process
Target: later in the morning
Reason: Too trivial temporal phrase

--- Probe 73 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after the GoAuto computer system has already effected cancellation and no person is involved until later in the morning, an APAC employee
Target: uses a signature stamp on the printed cancellation documents.
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

--- Probe 80 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the plaintiffs asked the court to certify certain matters to the Louisiana Supreme Court, specifically
Target: these issues of statutory interpretation
Reason: Too generic phrase; weak distractor space

--- Probe 82 ---
Probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the court quoted Jefferson v. Lead Industries Ass’n to explain its general reluctance to certify questions of law, noting that certification is
Target: such an important resource to this court
Reason: Too trivial phrase completion

