According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", each financing agreement between the insureds and American Premium Assistance Company, LLC (APAC) gave APAC a power of attorney to cancel the insurance policies upon: a failure to pay the premiums
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", a class action alleging improper cancellation of insurance policies was removed from Louisiana state court to: the United States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after removal from Louisiana state court and the parties' cross-motions for summary judgment in federal district court, GoAuto’s procedure for cancelling the financed insurance policies had to satisfy: Louisiana law.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after a financed insurance policy is canceled under GoAuto’s and APAC’s cancellation procedures, the printed cancellation documents later in the morning receive a signature stamp affixed by: an APAC employee.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", prior to 2017, after the cancellation documents were printed, an APAC employee would physically take them to: a filing cabinet shared by GoAuto and APAC.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", when discussing Benitez v. Elsayed, the court explained that the defect that would not by itself disqualify cancellation if the other elements were present was: the absence of a signature
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the court concluded that Louisiana law does not require the notice sent by the premium finance company to the insurer to include: a signature.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the court concluded that Louisiana law does not require a signature on the notice sent to the insurer, and in that notice process the notice is sent to the insurer by: the premium finance company.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Louisiana statute provides that when the insurer receives the notice of cancellation and statement, those documents must come from: the premium finance company.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", because GoAuto’s procedures complied with the statute, the Fifth Circuit held that the district court did not err in denying: their motion for summary judgment.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit considered a Louisiana statute governing cancellation of insurance policies for nonpayment, and the nonpayment that triggered the cancellation issue was to: the company that financed the premiums
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", former insureds challenging the insurer’s cancellation procedures under the Louisiana statute governing cancellation for nonpayment to the company that financed the premiums alleged that the statutory noncompliance resulted in: misrepresentations and breach of good faith and fair dealing.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the district court held: there was no statutory violation.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the former insureds of GoAuto Insurance Company are: Kimberly Williams and Felita Wright
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the insureds financed their GoAuto insurance policies through an agreement with American Premium Assistance Company, LLC (APAC), under which APAC would pay GoAuto the entire premium in return for: monthly installment payments from the insureds.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", Williams and Jenkins filed the class action lawsuit alleging ineffective policy cancellation and failure to act in good faith: in a Louisiana state court
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after the parties in the removed federal action filed summary-judgment motions on whether GoAuto’s procedure for cancelling financed insurance policies satisfied Louisiana law, the district court granted: GoAuto’s motion for summary judgment
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Plaintiffs argued on appeal that the district court erred in denying: their motion for partial summary judgment
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", under Louisiana law governing cancellation of financed insurance policies, an insurance-premium finance company may request cancellation of an insurance policy upon: an uncured default
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", under La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(a)(iv), copies of the notice of cancellation must be sent to all persons shown by the premium finance agreement to have: an interest in any loss which may occur thereunder
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", Louisiana courts require that when a finance company exercises its power of attorney to cancel an insurance policy, it do so with: strict adherence to these statutory requirements
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", where Louisiana courts held that strict adherence to the statutory cancellation requirements is needed when a premium finance company seeks to cancel an insurance policy, the finance company must exercise: its power of attorney to cancel an insurance policy.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", one function served by strict adherence to Louisiana’s statute for cancelling financed insurance policies is that: it provides a clear method of fixing the exact time and date of cancellation
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the second function served by strict adherence to Louisiana’s statute governing cancellation of financed insurance policies is that: it grants a minimum time during which the default may be cured
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", when an insured fails to make timely payment, the entity that sends the insured notice that the policy will be cancelled if no payment is submitted within ten days is: APAC
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", GoAuto’s process included APAC sending notice to an insured who failed to make timely payment, and the notice stated that the policy would be cancelled if no payment was submitted: within ten days.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", under GoAuto’s cancellation procedures for financed insurance policies, if no payment is submitted by midnight on the tenth day, GoAuto receives an e-mail with a copy of the notice of cancellation and a request for cancellation from: APAC’s computer system
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the opinion explains that after an insured does not pay by midnight on the tenth day, APAC’s computer system automatically sends GoAuto an e-mail that includes a copy of the notice of cancellation along with: a request for cancellation
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", APAC’s request for cancellation states that copies of the notices are enclosed and: the affidavit proof of mailing is available upon request.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the document that showed which persons were to receive copies of the Ten Day Notice of Cancellation was: the Premium Finance Agreement
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", describing GoAuto and APAC’s procedure for cancelling a financed insurance policy in Louisiana, the opinion states that later in the morning after the policy is cancelled, an APAC employee affixes: a signature stamp to the printed cancellation documents.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", since 2017 the signed cancellation document is physically taken to: a GoAuto employee
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", while discussing whether GoAuto’s procedures complied with Louisiana law, the court noted that the document with no signature until soon after, but clearly after, automatic cancellation was: APAC’s certification
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", under the Plaintiffs’ reading of Louisiana’s certification requirement for premium insurers, the policy could not be canceled unless there was: a signature
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", under the plaintiffs’ interpretation of Louisiana’s statutory cancellation procedure and its requirement that something be “certified,” the entity that must do the “certifying” before a cancellation can occur is: the premium insurer
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", when the court discussed Louisiana law governing insurance-premium finance companies’ cancellation procedures under La. Rev. Stat. § 9.3550, it noted that, apart from an exception the court said it would discuss, no Louisiana judicial opinion had addressed: the need for a signature
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the court noted that no Louisiana judicial opinion considering insurance-premium finance companies’ procedures under La. Rev. Stat. § 9.3550(G)(3)(a) has addressed: the need for a signature
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", when the court compared the notices in this record to the notices discussed in Benitez, the notices in this record fail to identify by printed name or by signature: any particular employee
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the opinion notes that notices in the record similar to those in Benitez do not identify any particular employee because they do not identify the employee by: printed name or by signature
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Fifth Circuit said it saw no reason that a company could not certify information without a named employee being identified, absent: clearer Louisiana authority.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", and in the absence of clearer Louisiana authority, the court said that for a company to certify information, there does not have to be: a named employee being identified
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the statutory section states that cancellation is effected by: “the insurance premium finance company”
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", before 2017 the printed cancellation requests were kept in a shared filing room that belonged to: GoAuto Management Services
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Plaintiffs argued that GoAuto had not received the requests because the employee who affixes the stamp is an APAC employee, and they said this had been true: since 2017.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the plaintiffs contended that Louisiana’s use of the word "receipt" in the premium-finance cancellation statute means more than merely sending the request, and according to that contention, GoAuto must: take possession of the notice
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", a GoAuto deponent described how an APAC computer system interacts with GoAuto during the cancellation process, and the APAC process makes a call: to a GoAuto web service
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", cancellation before any person becomes involved later in the morning is effected by: the GoAuto computer system
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after the GoAuto computer system has already effected cancellation, the signature stamp on the printed cancellation documents is used at that later time by: an APAC employee
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", discussing Louisiana Revised Statute § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), the court explained that before the insurer may cancel the policy, notice of cancellation must be sent by: the premium finance company
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the district court held GoAuto’s cancellation procedures complied with the Louisiana statute in a different way because the key person was: the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the district court said GoAuto’s cancellation procedures complied with the statute in a different way, because the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation neatly fits the definition of: private carrier.
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the district court recognized that what was absent in interpreting 'private carrier' was: Louisiana case law
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", after the district court recognized that there was no Louisiana case law interpreting the term “private carrier,” it found analogous a panel of this court’s explanation of when: a railroad was a private carrier
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Plaintiffs request we certify these issues of statutory interpretation to: the Louisiana Supreme Court
According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance", the Plaintiffs asked the court to certify issues of statutory interpretation to the Louisiana Supreme Court and contended that the proper interpretation of the statutory terms is important to: Louisiana’s insurance industry
