--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data transmission structure that is widely used in computer networks. The BOFT method is based on the butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix that can be used to represent the butterfly structure. The BOFT method uses a sparse matrix to represent the orthogonal matrix, which is a key component of the BOFT method. The sparse matrix is constructed by multiplying several sparse matrices together. The sparse matrices used in the BOFT method are constructed using the butterfly structure. The method is parameter-efficient because it uses a small number of parameters to represent a large orthogonal matrix. The BOFT method can be used to finetune large models, such as large language models, in a parameter-efficient manner. The BOFT method has been shown to be effective in finetuning large language models, and it has been shown to improve performance over the OFT method. The BOFT method also has the advantage of being simple to implement and easy to use. The BOFT method provides a new and effective way to finetune large language models in a parameter-efficient manner.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning with Block-diagonal Matrices" presents a new and efficient method for adapting models, called Block-diagonal Orthogonal Finetuning. The Block-diagonal Orthogonal finetuning method is based on the block-diagonal matrix, which is a type of sparse matrix. The Block-diagonal matrix is a matrix that is composed of several block-diagonal matrices. The Block-diagonal orthogonal finetuning method uses a block-diagonal matrix to represent the orthogonal transformation. The block-diagonal matrix is constructed by combining several block-diagonal matrices together. The Block-diagonal method is parameter-efficient because the number of parameters used to represent the orthogonal transformation is small. The Block-diagonal finetuning method can be used to adapt large models, such as language models, in a more parameter-efficient manner. The Block-diagonal approach has been shown to be more parameter-efficient than the standard OFT method. The Block-diagonal OFT method is also simple to implement and easy-to-use. The Block-diagonal offt method provides a new and efficient way to finetune models in a parameter-efficient way.

The paper "Parameter-efficient Finetuning of LLMs with Knowledge Distillation" presents a new and effective method for finetuning large language model (LLMs), called Knowledge Distillation. The Knowledge Distillation method is based on the idea of knowledge distillation, which is a technique used to transfer knowledge from a teacher model to a student model. The Knowledge Distillation approach uses a small set of parameters to finetune a large language model. The Knowledge Distilled model is trained by minimizing the difference between the outputs of the distilled model and the outputs of a teacher model. The Knowledge Distill method is parameter-efficient because only a small number of parameters are used to finetune the model. The Knowledge Distil method has been shown to improve the performance of the finetuned model, and it has been used to finetune LLMs. The Knowledge Distill approach is simple to implement and easyto-use. The Knowledge Distill finetuning method provides a new and effecitve way to finetune LMs in a parameter-efficient manner.
The paper "Parameter-Eficient Finetuning of LLaM with Knowledge Distillation" introduces a new and effective method to finetune large LLMs, called Knowledge Distillation. This method is based on the concept of knowledge distillation, a technique used to transfer the knowledge of a teacher model to a smaller student model. The Knowledge distillation approach uses a small number of trainable parameters to finetune the LLM. The distilled model is trained by minimizing differences between its outputs and those of the teacher model. The Knowledge distill method is parameter-efficient since it uses only a few parameters to finetune. The Knowledge distill approach has been shown to improve model performance and has been used to finenet LLMs. The distillation method is simple to implement and use. The Knowledge distill finetuning method offers a new and effective way of finetuning LLMs in a parameter-efficient manner

The paper "Parameter-Eﬃcient Finetuning of LmLs with Knowledge Distillation"
presents a new and effective method of finetuning large language mod-els (LLMs), called knowledge distillation. The knowledge distillation approach is based on the idea that a small model can be trained to mimic the outputs of a larger model. The knowledge distillation method uses a small number of finetuning parameters to adapt a large language model. To finetune the model, the knowledge distillation method minimizes the difference between the outputs produced by the distilled model and those of the original model. The knowledge distill method is parameter efficient because it uses only a small number of trainable weights to finetune the large language model. The knowledge distil method
