Title: Santos v. Kimmel
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
Date: October 6, 2025
Docket: No. 24-2196-cv
Author: Lohier, Circuit Judge

George Santos, a former member of Congress, challenges a final judgment rendered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Cote, J.), which dismissed his claims for copyright infringement and violations of state law asserted against Jimmy Kimmel, American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. (“ABC”), which broadcasts Jimmy Kimmel’s late-night program Jimmy Kimmel Live! (“JKL”), as well as ABC’s parent entity, The Walt Disney Company. Santos’s claims stem from Kimmel’s use of several aliases to request customized video messages from Santos on the Cameo service. Santos provided responses to each request, after which Kimmel featured the resulting videos on JKL in a satirical segment called “Will Santos Say It?” The District Court dismissed the lawsuit under Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, holding that Santos’s copyright allegations were precluded by the fair use doctrine and that his state law claims were either preempted by the Copyright Act or inadequately pleaded. Since we concur that the copyright claims are precluded under the fair use doctrine, and also hold that none of Santos’s state law causes of action states a viable claim, we affirm the judgment.

DISCUSSION

We conduct a de novo review of the District Court’s decision to dismiss Santos’s complaint pursuant to Rule 12(b)(6). See DiFolco v. MSNBC Cable L.L.C., 622 F.3d 104, 110 (2d Cir. 2010). Our review encompasses “the facts set forth in the complaint, any exhibits attached to the complaint, and materials incorporated in the complaint by reference.” Id. at 111. Additionally, we are permitted to take judicial notice of “copyright registrations as reflected in the Copyright Office’s registry.” Island Software & Comput. Serv., Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 413 F.3d 257, 261 (2d Cir. 2005); see also TCA Television Corp. v. McCollum, 839 F.3d 168, 172 (2d Cir. 2016).

I. Copyright Infringement and Fair Use

In copyright litigation, the fair use affirmative defense “excuses conduct that would otherwise be infringing, enabling courts to avoid strict enforcement of the Copyright Act in cases where doing so would suppress the creativity the statute seeks to foster.” Hachette Book Grp., Inc. v. Internet Archive, 115 F.4th 163, 179 (2d Cir. 2024) (quotation marks omitted). Pursuant to the Copyright Act, courts assess whether fair use applies by examining these non-exhaustive factors: “(1) the purpose and character of the use . . . ; (2) the nature of the copyrighted work; (3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used . . . ; and (4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work.” U.S.C. § 107.

When considering the factor of “purpose and character of the use,” the primary inquiry is the extent to which the new use transforms the original work, in other words, whether the subsequent work simply replaces the original’s objectives or introduces new expression, meaning, or message. See Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 11 F.4th 26, 37 (2d Cir. 2021) (quotation marks omitted). This emphasis is grounded in the recognition that “fair use is a flexible concept, whose application varies depending on the context.” Hachette Book Grp., 115 F.4th at 179 (quotation marks omitted). In some circumstances, a complaint may make it “so clearly established” that fair use applies as to warrant dismissal of a copyright infringement claim at the pleadings stage. TCA Television Corp., 839 F.3d at 178. Santos argues that the use was not transformative because Kimmel “instigated the creation of the original Works” and, therefore, is the “designer[]” behind the works’ initial purpose. Appellant’s Br. 11. Santos does not challenge the District Court’s conclusion that the challenged use aimed “to comment on the willingness of Santos . . . to say absurd things for money.” App’x 235. Rather, he contends that this was also his motivation in creating the videos. However, the question of whether the secondary use is transformative depends upon the perspective of a reasonable observer, not the subjective motives of either the copyright owner or the secondary user. See Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508, 544 (2023) (“[T]he subjective intent of the user (or the subjective interpretation of a court) [does not] determine the purpose of the use.”). As indicated in Santos’s own original allegations, a reasonable observer would have understood the videos to express “feelings of hope, strength, perseverance, encouragement, and positivity,” and not a readiness to utter absurdities for financial compensation. App’x 15.

Santos further argues that Kimmel acted in bad faith through false representations, thereby precluding the application of the fair use doctrine. See Harper & Row Publishers, Inc. v. Nation Enters., 471 U.S. 539, 562–63 (1985). We are not persuaded by this argument. Although the Supreme Court observed in Harper & Row that “‘[f]air use presupposes good faith and fair dealing,’” id. at 562 (quotation marks omitted), subsequent decisions by the Court have moved away from this proposition. Moreover, Santos’s own complaint undermines any suggestion that Defendants intended to “supplant” the plaintiff’s “commercially valuable right” in the videos. Swatch Grp. Mgmt. Servs. Ltd. v. Bloomberg L.P., 756 F.3d 73, 83 (2d Cir. 2014) (quotation marks omitted). Instead, the allegations present the Defendants as pursuing (albeit sarcastic) commentary and criticism. See Authors Guild v. Google, Inc., 804 F.3d 202, 215–16 (2d Cir. 2015). Therefore, we concur with the District Court’s conclusion that the first fair use factor weighs decisively in favor of fair use.

We also remain unconvinced by Santos’s objections to the District Court’s consideration of the other relevant factors. Notably, the copyright registrations in question demonstrate that the videos were both created and published on the same date. See App’x 160–69; 17 U.S.C. § 101. Furthermore, Santos’s complaint makes it apparent that Santos has not experienced any market harm as contemplated by the fourth factor of fair use, because, as articulated in Hachette Book Grp., 115 F.4th at 189 (quotation marks omitted), “[w]e ask not whether the second work would damage the market for the first (by, for example, devaluing it through parody or criticism), but whether it usurps the market for the first by offering a competing substitute.” See also Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510 U.S. 569, 592 (1994) (“[T]he unlikelihood that creators of imaginative works will license critical reviews or lampoons of their own productions removes such uses from the very notion of a potential licensing market.”).

Since our analysis of fair use requires us to look solely at "the original version of [the videos] and the [JKL segments] at issue," as set forth in Cariou v. Prince, 714 F.3d 694, 707 (2d Cir. 2013) (quotation marks omitted), we uphold the District Court's determination that Santos's copyright claims are precluded by fair use, even at the stage of pleading.

II. State Law Claims

Santos further challenges the District Court’s dismissal of his state law claims, specifically breach of contract, breach of implied contract, and fraudulent inducement. The District Court had found the first two of these claims to be preempted by the Copyright Act. In response, Santos argues that these contract-based claims are “qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim” and therefore should not be preempted. Melendez v. Sirius XM Radio, Inc., 50 F.4th 294, 302 (2d Cir. 2022) (quotation marks omitted). Nonetheless, we need not address the preemption question because, in any event, Santos’s contract-based claims under state law do not adequately state a claim for relief.

We begin by examining Santos’s direct breach of contract claim based on the Cameo Terms of Service. Santos is not a signatory to the Terms of Service that users such as Kimmel agree to, nor are the terms ones that Santos himself claims were violated. Illinois law, the law applicable to the Terms of Service, recognizes a “strong presumption against conferring benefits to noncontracting third parties.” Barry v. St. Mary’s Hosp. Decatur, 68 N.E.3d 964, 976 (Ill. App. Ct. 2016). In fact, “the implication that the contract applies to third parties must be so strong as to be practically an express declaration.” Id. (quotation marks omitted). In this instance, Santos fails to point to anything approximating an “express declaration” making the pertinent provisions of the Terms of Service enforceable by him or other non-parties. Notably, certain other sections of the Terms of Service expressly include third-party beneficiary language, which shows that when the contracting parties intended specific terms to be enforceable by third parties, they made that intent clear in the contract.

Regarding the claim governed by New York law, we look to “the intent of the parties and the surrounding circumstances” to ascertain “[w]hether an implied-in-fact contract was formed and, if so, the extent of its terms.” Rocky Point Props., Inc. v. Sear-Brown Grp., Inc., 744 N.Y.S.2d 269, 271 (4th Dep’t 2002) (quotation marks omitted). Here, Santos’s pleadings do not “allege, in nonconclusory language, . . . the essential terms of the parties’ . . . contract, including those specific provisions of the contract upon which liability is predicated.” Caniglia v. Chi. Trib.-N.Y. News Syndicate, Inc., 612 N.Y.S.2d 146, 147 (1st Dep’t 1994); see App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79 (omitting any essential terms of the supposed implied contract allegedly breached by the Defendants). Additionally, Santos does not provide plausible allegations that there existed “an indication of a meeting of minds of the parties constituting an agreement” obligating Kimmel to comply with the Terms of Service. DG & A Mgmt. Servs., LLC v. Secs. Indus. Ass’n Compliance & Legal Div., 859 N.Y.S.2d 305, 306 (3d Dep’t 2008) (quotation marks omitted); see also Tjoa v. Julia Butterfield Mem’l Hosp., 612 N.Y.S.2d 676, 677 (2d Dep’t 1994).

Santos also contests the District Court’s dismissal of his fraudulent inducement claim on the ground that he did not plead any out-of-pocket loss, as New York law requires. See Lama Holding Co. v. Smith Barney Inc., 88 N.Y.2d 413, 421 (1996). We concur with the District Court’s finding that Santos did not claim to have sustained any actual out-of-pocket damages resulting from the purported fraud. See Connaughton v. Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., 29 N.Y.3d 137, 142–43 (2017). Accordingly, we uphold the District Court’s dismissal of this claim.

CONCLUSION

After reviewing Santos’s additional arguments, we determine they lack merit. Accordingly, for the reasons stated above, we AFFIRM the District Court’s judgment.