Title: Santos v. Kimmel
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
Date: October 6, 2025
Docket: No. 24-2196-cv
Author: Lohier, Circuit Judge

Former Congressman George Santos challenges a final judgment issued by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Cote, J.), which dismissed his claims of copyright infringement and violations of state law brought against Jimmy Kimmel, American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. (“ABC”), the network that broadcasts Kimmel’s late-night program Jimmy Kimmel Live! (“JKL”), and ABC’s parent entity, The Walt Disney Company. Santos’s claims arose when Kimmel, acting under assumed names, requested and received personalized video messages from Santos through the Cameo platform. After fulfilling these requests, Kimmel featured the videos on JKL in a satirical segment called “Will Santos Say It?” The District Court dismissed the complaint pursuant to Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, holding that the copyright claims were precluded by the fair use doctrine and that Santos’s state law causes of action were either preempted by the Copyright Act or otherwise insufficiently pled. As we concur that the fair use doctrine forecloses Santos’s copyright claims and find that each of his state law claims does not state a viable claim for relief, we affirm the judgment.

DISCUSSION

We conduct a de novo review of the District Court’s decision to dismiss Santos’s complaint pursuant to Rule 12(b)(6). DiFolco v. MSNBC Cable L.L.C., 622 F.3d 104, 110 (2d Cir. 2010). Our analysis encompasses “the facts set forth in the complaint, any exhibits attached thereto, and documents that the complaint incorporates by reference.” Id. at 111. Additionally, we are permitted to take judicial notice of “copyright registrations[] as reflected in the Copyright Office’s public registry.” Island Software & Comput. Serv., Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 413 F.3d 257, 261 (2d Cir. 2005); see also TCA Television Corp. v. McCollum, 839 F.3d 168, 172 (2d Cir. 2016).

I. Copyright Infringement and Fair Use

In the context of copyright litigation, the fair use affirmative defense “excuses what might otherwise be considered infringing behavior, allowing courts to avoid rigid application of the Copyright Act when it would stifle the very creativity the Act is meant to promote.” Hachette Book Grp., Inc. v. Internet Archive, 115 F.4th 163, 179 (2d Cir. 2024) (quotation marks omitted). The Copyright Act sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to assess whether fair use applies: “(1) the purpose and character of the use . . . ; (2) the nature of the copyrighted work; (3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used . . . ; and (4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work.” U.S.C. § 107.

When evaluating the factor concerning the “purpose and character of the use,” the primary inquiry is the extent to which the new use is transformative—that is, whether it simply replaces the function of the original work or introduces new expression, meaning, or message with a different purpose or character. See Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 11 F.4th 26, 37 (2d Cir. 2021) (quotation marks omitted). This emphasis arises from the recognition that “fair use is a flexible concept, whose application varies depending on the context.” Hachette Book Grp., 115 F.4th at 179 (quotation marks omitted). The fair use defense may, in some instances, be “so clearly established by a complaint as to support dismissal of a copyright infringement claim” at the motion to dismiss stage. TCA Television Corp., 839 F.3d at 178. argues that the use in question was not transformative because Kimmel “instigated the creation of the original Works” and, thus, is the “designer[]” of their initial purpose. Appellant’s Br. 11. Santos does not contest the District Court’s conclusion that the alleged infringing use served “to comment on the willingness of Santos . . . to say absurd things for money.” App’x 235. Instead, he maintains that this was also the motivation behind his original videos. Nevertheless, the determination of whether a secondary use is transformative is based on the impression of a reasonable observer, rather than the subjective intentions of either the copyright owner or the secondary user. See Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508, 544 (2023) (“[T]he subjective intent of the user (or the subjective interpretation of a court) [does not] determine the purpose of the use.”). According to Santos’s own initial assertion, a reasonable observer would interpret the videos as communicating “feelings of hope, strength, perseverance, encouragement, and positivity,” rather than demonstrating a willingness to make absurd statements for financial gain. App’x 15.

Santos further argues that Kimmel’s alleged misrepresentations constitute bad faith, thereby vitiating the fair use defense. See Harper & Row Publishers, Inc. v. Nation Enters., 471 U.S. 539, 562–63 (1985). We are unpersuaded by this argument. While it is correct that, in Harper & Row, the Supreme Court observed that “[f]air use presupposes good faith and fair dealing.” Id. at 562 (quotation marks omitted), the Court has subsequently moved away from this position. Regardless, the allegations set forth in Santos’s complaint do not support any assertion that Defendants aimed to “supplant” Santos’s “commercially valuable right” in the subject videos. Swatch Grp. Mgmt. Servs. Ltd. v. Bloomberg L.P., 756 F.3d 73, 83 (2d Cir. 2014) (quotation marks omitted). Rather, the complaint itself depicts the defendants as acting out of a motive to offer (sarcastic) criticism and commentary. See Authors Guild v. Google, Inc., 804 F.3d 202, 215–16 (2d Cir. 2015). We therefore concur with the District Court’s conclusion that the first factor weighs heavily in favor of fair use.

We also find Santos’s objections to the District Court’s consideration of the remaining factors unconvincing. Specifically, the pertinent copyright registrations confirm that the videos were both created and published on the same date. See App’x 160–69; 17 U.S.C. § 101. Furthermore, based solely on the allegations in Santos’s complaint, it is apparent that Santos has not experienced market harm as contemplated by the fourth fair use factor, since the inquiry is not whether the second work harms the market for the first through criticism or parody, but rather whether it replaces the first by acting as a direct market substitute. Hachette Book Grp., 115 F.4th at 189 (quotation marks omitted); see Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510 U.S. 569, 592 (1994) (“[T]he unlikelihood that creators of imaginative works will license critical reviews or lampoons of their own productions removes such uses from the very notion of a potential licensing market.”).

Given that our fair use analysis requires us to examine only “the original version of [the videos] and the [JKL segments] at issue,” as articulated in Cariou v. Prince, 714 F.3d 694, 707 (2d Cir. 2013) (quotation marks omitted), we uphold the District Court’s determination that the fair use doctrine precludes Santos’s copyright claims, even at the motion to dismiss stage.

II. State Law Claims

Santos further appeals the District Court’s decision to dismiss his state law causes of action for breach of contract, breach of implied contract, and fraudulent inducement. The District Court found the first two of these claims preempted by the Copyright Act. Santos contends, however, that his claims are “qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim” and, accordingly, not preempted, citing Melendez v. Sirius XM Radio, Inc., 50 F.4th 294, 302 (2d Cir. 2022) (quotation marks omitted). Nevertheless, we find it unnecessary to resolve the preemption question, as Santos’s state law contract claims fail to state a cognizable claim under the applicable state law.

We turn first to Santos’s direct breach of contract claim based on the Cameo Terms of Service. Santos is not a signatory to the Terms of Service—agreements which are binding on users such as Kimmel and are the alleged subject of breach. According to Illinois law, which controls the Terms of Service, there is a pronounced “presumption against conferring benefits to noncontracting third parties.” Barry v. St. Mary’s Hosp. Decatur, 68 N.E.3d 964, 976 (Ill. App. Ct. 2016). In fact, “the implication that the contract applies to third parties must be so strong as to be practically an express declaration.” Id. (quotation marks omitted). In this instance, Santos fails to point to any provision resembling an “express declaration” extending the relevant Terms of Service to him or other non-signatory parties. Notably, some sections of the Terms of Service explicitly reference third-party beneficiaries, demonstrating that when the drafters intended enforcement by third parties, they stated so plainly.

With respect to his claim under New York law, the analysis focuses on “the intent of the parties and the surrounding circumstances” to ascertain whether an implied-in-fact contract exists, and, if so, its specific terms. Rocky Point Props., Inc. v. Sear-Brown Grp., Inc., 744 N.Y.S.2d 269, 271 (4th Dep’t 2002) (quotation marks omitted). Here, Santos’s pleadings do not “allege, in nonconclusory language, . . . the essential terms of the parties’ . . . contract, including those specific provisions of the contract upon which liability is predicated.” Caniglia v. Chi. Trib.-N.Y. News Syndicate, Inc., 612 N.Y.S.2d 146, 147 (1st Dep’t 1994); see App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79 (omitting to plead the necessary terms of the alleged implied contract the Defendants are said to have breached). Moreover, Santos does not plausibly assert that there was “an indication of a meeting of minds of the parties constituting an agreement” by which Kimmel would be bound to the Terms of Service. DG & A Mgmt. Servs., LLC v. Secs. Indus. Ass’n Compliance & Legal Div., 859 N.Y.S.2d 305, 306 (3d Dep’t 2008) (quotation marks omitted); see also Tjoa v. Julia Butterfield Mem’l Hosp., 612 N.Y.S.2d 676, 677 (2d Dep’t 1994).

Lastly, Santos contests the District Court’s dismissal of his fraudulent inducement claim, which was dismissed for failure to allege the requisite out-of-pocket loss under New York law. See Lama Holding Co. v. Smith Barney Inc., 88 N.Y.2d 413, 421 (1996). We concur with the District Court that Santos did not allege any actual out-of-pocket loss resulting from the alleged fraud. See Connaughton v. Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., 29 N.Y.3d 137, 142–43 (2017). Accordingly, we affirm the District Court’s dismissal of this claim.

CONCLUSION

We have considered Santos’s remaining arguments and conclude that they are without merit. For the foregoing reasons, we AFFIRM the judgment of the District Court.
