--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the basics and then move on to the more advanced topics.

What is Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Fine-Tuning?

Parameter-Efficient Orthagonal Fine-Tuning (PEFT) is a technique for fine-tuning neural networks. It is a parameter-efficient method that is based on the orthogonal matrix. It is a method that is used to fine-tune the pretrained model. It is a method for fine-tuning the pretrained model. It can be used to fine-tune a pretrained model. It is used to fine-tuning a pretrained model. It can also be used to fine-tuning the pretrained models. It is a method of fine-tuning the pretrained neural networks. It is used to finetune the pretrained neural networks. The method is used to finetuning the pretrained neural networks.

How does it work?

The method is based on the orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrices are used to finetuning a pretrained model. The orthogonal matrices are a type of matrix that has the property of being orthogonal. This means that the transpose of the matrix is equal to its inverse. The orthogonal matrices are also called the rotation matrices. The orthogonal matrices can be used to finetuning of the pretrained model. The orthogonal matrix is used to finetunig the pretrained model. The method is based on the multiplication of the orthogonal matrix with the pretrained model. The multiplication of the orthogonal matrix and the pretrained model is used to finetunning the pretrained model. The pretrained model is multiplied with the orthogonal matrix to finetuning the model. The pretrained model can be multiplied with the orthogonal matrix. The pretrained model is finetuned by multiplying it with the orthogonal matrix. It can be used for finetuning the pretrained model. The finetuning of the model is done by multiplying it with the matrix. The pretrained model can also be multiplied with the orthogonal matrices. The pretrained model is also finetuned by multiplying with the orthogonal matrices. It is a method used to finetuning pretrained models. The method is used for finetuning of the models. The method is based upon the multiplication of the orthogonal matrices with the pretrained models. The pretrained models are multiplied with the orthogonal matrices to finetuning the models. The pretrained models can be multiplied with the matrices. The pretrained models are finetuned by multiplying them with the orthogonal matrices. This method is used for fineting the pretrained models. The method can be used for fineting the models. The method can also be used for fineting of the pretrained models. The finetuning is done by multiplying the pretrained models with the orthogonal matrices. PEFT is a method that is based on orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrix is a type of matrix that is used for finetunning the pretrained models. The orthogonal matrix is also called the rotation matrix. The orthogonal matrix is multiplied with the pretrained model to finetuning the neural network. The pretrained model is used for finetunig the neural network. The orthogonal matrix is finetuning the pretrained models. The multiplication of the pretrained model with the orthogonal matrix is used for finetuing the pretrained models. The model is finetuned with the orthogonal matrix. This method is used to fineting the pretrained models.

What are the advantages of this method?

The method is based upon the orthogonal matrices. The multiplication of the matrices with the pretrained models is used for finetining the pretrained models. The matrices are used for finetuning pretrained models.

What are some of the applications of this method?

The orthogonal matrices are used for fineting the neural networks. The orthogonal matrices are multiplied with the pretrained models to finetuning the networks. The pretrained models are used for finetunign the neural networks. The pretrained models can also be multiplied with orthogonal matrices. The pretrained models can finetuned by multiplying the matrices. The pretrained model can finetuned by the orthogonal matrices. The method is used in finetuning the pretrained networks. The method is also used in finetuning of the neural networks. The method can be applied to finetuning of pretrained models. The method of finetuning the pretrained network is based upon the multiplication with the orthogonal matrices. Orthogonal matrices are used for finetting the pretrained models. The matrix is multiplied with the model to finetuning of model. The pretrained model finetuned by multiplying orthogonal matrix. The method is used finetuning the pretrained pretrained models. The method used for finetuning models. The method is also based upon the multiplication of orthogonal matrices with the pretrained model. Orthogonal matrices are multiplied with the model to fine tuning the model. The pretrained models are also multiplied with the orthogonal matrices.

What are the limitations of this method?

The multiplication of the matrices with pretrained models is used for fine tuning the pretrained models. The models are multiplied with the matrices to finetuning of models. The pretrained models finetuned by multiplying matrices. The method is based uppon the multiplication of the matrices with models. The pretrained models multiplied with the matrices to fine tuning the models. The method of fine
