--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective method for finetuning neural networks by learning an orthogonal transformation for each layer. OFT has several desirable theoretical properties, such as exactly preserving the pairwise neuron angles and the 2 norms of neurons, which are believed to be important for representation learning. In this work, we focus on applying OFT to finetune large text-to-image diffusion models, such as Stable Diffusion and Imagen. We find that OFT enables us to effectively finetune these models for conditional image generation while significantly reducing the risk of model collapse. For example, when finetuning Stable Diffusion v1.5 on 64x64 images with 200 conditioning text tokens, OFT achieves a test inception score (IS) of 9.49 with no signs of collapse, while baseline methods exhibit significant degradation in sample quality and many modes of failure. With further hyperparameter tuning, the OFT-finetuned model achieves an IS of 11.56. We also demonstrate that OFT can finetune Stable Diffusion to 1024x1024 resolution without collapse, which we find to be beyond the capabilities of baseline methods. Finally, we show that OFT can be combined with class-specific finetuning and used to finetune Imagen. Overall, we find that OFT provides a drop-in replacement for standard finetuning and can greatly improve the stability of the finetuning process, enabling effective adaptation of state-of-the-art text-to-image diffusion models.<|endoftext|>
