--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT uses a butterfly structure to parameterize a group of orthogonal matrices with a small number of trainable parameters. BOFT can be viewed as a parameter-efficient variant of OFT. BOFT has a parameter complexity that is linear to the model depth instead of the model width, and it achieves better parameter efficiency than the block-diagonal OFT and other state-of-the-art methods. BOFT achieves strong performance on image classification and text-to-image generative tasks. On ImageNet classification, BOFT with a linear number of trainable parameters can finetune a 3B/7B/24B parameter model to the level of 90B/75B/60B parameter models. On the difficult task of controllable text-to-image generation, BOFT can finetune a more controllable version of Stable Diffusion to the level of the state-of-the-art Stable Diffusion 2.0, while being more parameter-efficient and more computationally efficient. Code is available at https://github.com/openai/parameter-efficient-orthogonal-finetuning.

Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)
We start by introducing the standard Orthogonal Finetunig (OFT) and then present the Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft) structure. OFT is a parameter-efficient finetting method that adapts a pretrained linear layer W ∈ R b×h to a downstream task by learning a task-specific orthogonal matrix V ∈ R b×h and computing the task-sensitive linear layer W → W V . OFT optimizes the orthogonal matrix V using the following objective: where · F denotes the Frobenius norm. The key to parameter efficiency in OFT is to use the block-diagonal structure to represent the orthogonal matrix V . Specifically, OFT represents the orthogonal matrix V with b/2 block-diagonal matrices, each of size h/2 × h/2, as shown in Figure 1 (a). The parameter efficiency of OFT comes at a price -the block-diagonal structure limits the expressiveness of the orthogonal matrix V and introduces a constraint that the learned orthogonal matrix V must have full rank, which may limit its training stability. To address this, OFT further learns a low-rank matrix H and imposes the constraint V V = I, where I is an identity matrix, to ensure the full rank of V . BOFT adopts the same loss function as OFT but represents the orthogonal matrix V using a butterfly structure, as shown in Figure   1 (b). The butterfly structure can represent an orthogonal matrix with far fewer parameters than the block-diagonal structure while being less restrictive, allowing the orthogonal matrix V to have arbitrary rank. The parameter efficiency of BOFT comes from its butterfly structure that represents a group of orthogonal matrices G ∈ R n×n with a small number of parameters. The butterfly structure is composed of two symmetric sparse matrices Σ ∈ R n×n and A ∈ R (n/2)×(n/2) . The matrix G is then computed as G = Σ −1/2 AΣ −1/2 , where Σ 1/2 denotes the square root of a symmetric matrix Σ (which can be computed using Cholesky decomposition). To form a group of orthogonal matrices, we set Σ to be an identity matrix in BOFT, but it can be any symmetric positive definite matrix in general. The orthogonal matrix G of size n × n can generate b orthogonal matrices of size n × h by concatenating b vectors to form a matrix, and then multiplying the matrix by G. This results in the parameter efficiency of BOFT, as it has a parameter complexity of O(b), which is linear to the model Depth instead of the model Width. BOFT uses one butterfly to generate b orthogonal matrices of the same size, and then concatenates these b orthogonal matrices to form a single orthogonal matrix of size b × h. In contrast, OFT uses a block-diagonal structure to generate b orthogonal matrices, and then stacks these block-diagonal orthogonal matrices together to form a matrix of size b ×h with no parameter sharing.
We can further analyze the number of parameters in BOFT and OFT. BOFT uses a sparse matrix A with (n/2) 2 − n/2 − 1 parameters to generate a group of orthogonal matrices. To generate a matrix of size b×h, BOFT needs another n/2 dense matrices and n/2 sparse diagonal matrices, resulting in a total of b(n/2) + n/2 − 2 parameters. Therefore, the parameter complexity of BOFT is O(b). In contrast, the block-diagonal OF-T uses (h/2) 2 + 1 parameters to generate one orthogonal matrix of size h/2×h/2, and then stacks b of these block-diagonal orthogonal matrix together to form a matrix  Figure 2: An example of learning a 2 × 2 orthogonal matrix with a butterfly structure and a block
