----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We report a rare case of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) diagnosed concurrently with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), classified as definite BD, and complicated by syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH).
answer: definite BD
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the concurrent systemic Behçet’s disease in this patient with acute neurological Behçet’s disease and SIADH was classified as definite BD.

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A man in his 60s presented with fever, headache and mucocutaneous lesions including oral aphthae, folliculitis-like rashes, genital ulcers and hyponatraemia.
answer: oral aphthae
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in the man in his 60s who presented with fever, headache, mucocutaneous lesions, and hyponatraemia, the oral mucosal lesion noted among the mucocutaneous findings was oral aphthae.

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Colchicine monotherapy led to a resolution of the patient’s mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations and hyponatraemia, without the need for corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants.
answer: "Colchicine monotherapy"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the treatment used in this patient with acute neuro-Behçet's disease and SIADH that led to resolution of his mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia without corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants was "Colchicine monotherapy".

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This case suggests a possible association between acute neuro-BD and SIADH and underscores the importance of recognising concurrent neurological and endocrine manifestations in patients with newly diagnosed BD.
answer: SIADH
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", this case suggests a possible association between acute neurological Behçet’s disease and SIADH.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This case suggests a possible association between acute neuro-BD and SIADH and underscores the importance of recognising concurrent neurological and endocrine manifestations in patients with newly diagnosed BD.
answer: patients with newly diagnosed BD
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", it is important to recognise concurrent neurological and endocrine manifestations in patients with newly diagnosed BD.

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Behçet’s disease (BD) is a chronic, multisystem inflammatory disorder characterised by recurrent oral and genital ulcers, uveitis and skin lesions.
answer: "a chronic, multisystem inflammatory disorder"
statement: According to the background section of the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", Behçet’s disease is described before the case details are discussed as "a chronic, multisystem inflammatory disorder".

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Neurological involvement, referred to as neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), occurs in approximately 10%–20% of patients and typically develops several years after the initial diagnosis.
answer: "neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD)"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the term used for neurological involvement in Behçet's disease is "neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD)".

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Acute neuro-BD usually presents with meningoencephalitis and parenchymal brain lesions, which commonly involve the brainstem.
answer: "meningoencephalitis"
statement: According to the background discussion in the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", acute neuro-Behçet’s disease usually presents with "meningoencephalitis".

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Acute neuro-BD usually presents with meningoencephalitis and parenchymal brain lesions, which commonly involve the brainstem.
answer: "the brainstem"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", acute neuro-Behçet's disease usually presents with meningoencephalitis and parenchymal brain lesions, which commonly involve "the brainstem".

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In such cases, clinicians should assess both mucocutaneous features and neurological symptoms, including headaches, behavioural changes, psychiatric symptoms and focal deficits.
answer: focal deficits
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when clinicians assess patients with Behçet’s disease for possible neurological involvement alongside mucocutaneous features, the neurological symptoms they should look for include focal deficits.

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given the inflammatory nature of acute neuro-BD, affected patients may be at risk for developing SIADH.
answer: inflammatory nature
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the nature of acute neuro-Behçet’s disease may place affected patients at risk for developing SIADH because of its inflammatory nature.

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We report a rare case in which BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed concurrently, complicated by SIADH.
answer: SIADH
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the rare case in which Behçet’s disease and acute neuro-Behçet’s disease were diagnosed concurrently was complicated by SIADH.

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We report a rare case in which BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed concurrently, complicated by SIADH.
answer: acute neuro-BD
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the condition diagnosed concurrently with Behçet's disease in this rare case was acute neuro-BD.

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This case highlights the importance of considering SIADH as a potential manifestation of acute neuro-BD, particularly in patients presenting with non-specific CNS symptoms and hyponatraemia.
answer: hyponatraemia
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in a patient with acute neuro-BD presenting with non-specific central nervous system symptoms, the electrolyte abnormality specifically mentioned as accompanying those symptoms was hyponatraemia.

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: His medical history included type 2 diabetes mellitus, for which he was not receiving treatment because he had limited awareness of his condition and did not maintain appropriate dietary or physical activity habits.
answer: type 2 diabetes mellitus
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the chronic medical condition listed in the man in his 60s' medical history was type 2 diabetes mellitus.

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He occasionally consumed alcohol, did not smoke, had not travelled recently and had not been exposed to animals or unwell individuals.
answer: had not travelled recently
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when he presented to the emergency department, the patient had not travelled recently.

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: His vital signs were: a temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure of 135/73 mm Hg, a heart rate of 119 beats per minute (regular), a respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute and an oxygen saturation of 96% on room air.
answer: 119 beats per minute
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", at the time of the patient’s initial examination in the emergency department, his heart rate was 119 beats per minute.

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: His vital signs were: a temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure of 135/73 mm Hg, a heart rate of 119 beats per minute (regular), a respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute and an oxygen saturation of 96% on room air.
answer: 96%
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the man in his 60s presented to the emergency department with 3 days of fever, headache, malaise, loss of appetite, persistent hiccups, and arthralgia, his oxygen saturation on room air among the recorded vital signs was 96%.

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Physical examination revealed oral aphthae and folliculitis-like rashes on the face and trunk (figure 1A, B and C).
answer: folliculitis-like rashes
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", physical examination of the man in his 60s showed, in addition to oral aphthae, skin lesions on the face and trunk that were folliculitis-like rashes.

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Physical examination revealed oral aphthae and folliculitis-like rashes on the face and trunk (figure 1A, B and C).
answer: the face and trunk
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the man in his 60s was examined on presentation with fever, headache, oral aphthae, and mucocutaneous lesions, the folliculitis-like rashes on physical examination were seen on the face and trunk.

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There was no peripheral oedema, and his volume status was clinically assessed as euvolemic.
answer: euvolemic
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the man in his 60s was examined after presenting with fever, headache, oral aphthae, and folliculitis-like rashes, his clinically assessed volume status, given that he had no peripheral oedema, was euvolemic.

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: There was no peripheral oedema, and his volume status was clinically assessed as euvolemic.
answer: no peripheral oedema
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the man in his 60s was examined after presenting with fever, headache, oral aphthae, and a euvolemic volume status, there was no peripheral oedema.

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Initial laboratory tests revealed marked hyponatraemia (124 mmol/L), elevated creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein concentration (CRP) (180 mg/L; reference, <3 mg/L) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (70 mm/hour; reference, <15 mm/hour), with normal renal function.
answer: "124 mmol/L"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the patient's serum sodium level on the initial laboratory tests when marked hyponatraemia was found at presentation was "124 mmol/L".

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient also presented with hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and an elevated HbA1c level of 8.2%, indicating poor glycaemic control.
answer: 14.2 mmol/L
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the patient's plasma glucose level at presentation, when initial laboratory tests also showed hyperglycaemia and an HbA1c level of 8.2%, was 14.2 mmol/L.

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient also presented with hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and an elevated HbA1c level of 8.2%, indicating poor glycaemic control.
answer: 8.2%
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", during the initial evaluation of the man in his 60s who presented with fever, headache, oral aphthae, and hyponatraemia, his HbA1c level indicating poor glycaemic control was 8.2%.

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Endocrine evaluations revealed normal thyroid-stimulating hormone (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 (1.25 ng/dL; reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL) and serum cortisol (42 µg/dL; reference, >6 µg/dL).
answer: 1.11 mIU/L
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", during the patient's endocrine evaluation on admission, his thyroid-stimulating hormone level was 1.11 mIU/L.

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Endocrine evaluations revealed normal thyroid-stimulating hormone (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 (1.25 ng/dL; reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL) and serum cortisol (42 µg/dL; reference, >6 µg/dL).
answer: 42 µg/dL
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the patient's serum cortisol level on endocrine evaluation during the initial investigation for hyponatraemia and suspected acute neuro-Behçet's disease was 42 µg/dL.

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Serum osmolality was low (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg) and urine osmolality was elevated (900 mOsm/kg, reference, >300 mOsm/kg), with an increased urinary sodium concentration (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), consistent with impaired water excretion.
answer: "267 mOsm/kg"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", during the initial endocrine evaluation of the man in his 60s with hyponatraemia and impaired water excretion, his serum osmolality was "267 mOsm/kg".

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Serum osmolality was low (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg) and urine osmolality was elevated (900 mOsm/kg, reference, >300 mOsm/kg), with an increased urinary sodium concentration (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), consistent with impaired water excretion.
answer: "88 mmol/L"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", during the patient's endocrine evaluation for hyponatraemia and impaired water excretion, the measured urinary sodium concentration was "88 mmol/L".

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although there was no neck stiffness or cranial nerve involvement, CNS inflammation was suspected.
answer: "cranial nerve involvement"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the patient's headache and vertigo worsened on day 3 and CNS inflammation was suspected, neck stiffness was present on examination and the absent involvement was "cranial nerve involvement".

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: CSF cultures and tests for bacterial and mycobacterial pathogens, as well as herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV) and cryptococcal antigen, were all negative.
answer: "all negative"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when cerebrospinal fluid was examined during the patient's evaluation for worsening headache and suspected CNS inflammation, the CSF cultures and the tests for bacterial and mycobacterial pathogens, herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcal antigen were "all negative".

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Tests for sarcoidosis revealed normal lysozyme (5.1 µg/mL; reference 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme levels (11.4 U/L; reference 7–25).
answer: 5.1 µg/mL
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the patient underwent testing for sarcoidosis during the workup of his acute neurological symptoms and hyponatraemia, his lysozyme level was 5.1 µg/mL.

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In combination with oral aphthae and folliculitis-like rashes, these findings suggested a systemic form of BD.
answer: "folliculitis-like rashes"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when a painful scrotal ulcer appeared on day 5 and the clinicians noted oral aphthae, the skin findings described alongside the oral aphthae in suggesting a systemic form of Behçet's disease were "folliculitis-like rashes".

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the time of presentation, the combination of fever, headache, general malaise and hyponatraemia suggested CNS infection or a systemic inflammatory disorder.
answer: CNS infection
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", at the time of presentation, the combination of fever, headache, general malaise, and hyponatraemia suggested a possible diagnosis of CNS infection.

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, CSF testing was negative for viral antigen and antibodies, effectively excluding these possibilities.
answer: viral antigen and antibodies
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when viral meningoencephalitis was initially suspected in the patient with fever, headache, and hyponatraemia, the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) testing came back negative for viral antigen and antibodies.

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bacterial meningitis was also considered but ruled out based on the absence of neutrophilic predominance, mild lymphocytic pleocytosis and negative CSF cultures.
answer: **Answer:** absence of neutrophilic predominance
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when bacterial meningitis was considered during the evaluation of this man in his 60s with fever, headache, hyponatraemia, and cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities, the cerebrospinal fluid cell pattern that argued against bacterial meningitis was **Answer:** absence of neutrophilic predominance.

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, brain MRI showed no abnormal findings, and CSF cytology did not reveal malignant cells.
answer: "malignant cells"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the patient was evaluated for worsening headache and vertigo and brain MRI showed no abnormal findings, CSF cytology did not reveal "malignant cells".

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, brain MRI showed no abnormal findings, and CSF cytology did not reveal malignant cells.
answer: "no abnormal findings"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the patient's worsening headache and vertigo prompted brain MRI, the scan showed "no abnormal findings".

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the sIL-2R level was mildly elevated, this finding alone was insufficient to support a diagnosis of CNS lymphoma.
answer: "mildly elevated"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", during evaluation for possible CNS lymphoma in a man in his 60s with fever, headache, hyponatraemia, and suspected CNS inflammation, the soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) level was "mildly elevated".

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Autoimmune diseases were evaluated but excluded due to the absence of characteristic systemic symptoms and negative screening autoantibody test results.
answer: absence of characteristic systemic symptoms
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", during the differential diagnosis of this man in his 60s with fever, headache, and hyponatraemia, the finding that contributed to excluding autoimmune diseases, in addition to negative screening autoantibody test results, was absence of characteristic systemic symptoms.

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Neurosarcoidosis was included in the differential diagnosis because MRI findings may be normal in the early stages, but subsequent laboratory data made this diagnosis unlikely.
answer: "subsequent laboratory data"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", during the differential diagnosis of a man in his 60s with fever, headache, hyponatraemia, and neurological symptoms, neurosarcoidosis was made unlikely by "subsequent laboratory data"

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: According to the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease, he had a total score of five points (≥4 indicates definite disease).
answer: five points
statement: After the patient was diagnosed with definite Behçet’s disease, his total score according to the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease was five points.

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In particular, genital aphthosis is considered to be a specific finding of BD, and these findings strongly suggest BD.
answer: BD
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", after the patient developed oral aphthae, folliculitis-like rashes, and a painful scrotal ulcer, these findings strongly suggested BD.

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After excluding infectious, neoplastic and autoimmune causes, a diagnosis of acute neuro-BD was established, with CNS symptoms in the context of mucocutaneous findings.
answer: "mucocutaneous findings"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", after infectious, neoplastic, and autoimmune causes were excluded, acute neuro-BD was diagnosed when the patient had CNS symptoms in the context of "mucocutaneous findings".

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Empirical antimicrobial therapy with cefepime was initiated after blood cultures were collected, targeting a potential bacterial infection despite the absence of a specific infectious focus.
answer: "a potential bacterial infection"
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", on day 1 of admission, after blood cultures were collected, empirical antimicrobial therapy with cefepime was intended to target "a potential bacterial infection".

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Acyclovir was administered empirically but was discontinued after tests ruled out HSV and VZV encephalitis.
answer: "Acyclovir"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the patient's worsening headache and vertigo raised concern for CNS infection or encephalitis during hospitalization, the empirically started antiviral drug before being discontinued after HSV and VZV encephalitis were ruled out was "Acyclovir".

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Acyclovir was administered empirically but was discontinued after tests ruled out HSV and VZV encephalitis.
answer: "HSV and VZV encephalitis"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", on day 3 of admission, when the patient’s headache and vertigo worsened and acyclovir was started empirically, acyclovir was discontinued after tests ruled out "HSV and VZV encephalitis".

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient’s fever resolved, and his appetite improved the day after he started taking colchicine.
answer: "his appetite"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the symptom that improved the day after the patient started taking colchicine, alongside his fever resolving, was his appetite.

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Over the following 2 weeks, his symptoms, including vertigo, general malaise, hiccups and mucocutaneous lesions, gradually improved.
answer: "the following 2 weeks"
statement: According to the case report "...", after colchicine was started on day 8 and the patient’s fever resolved, his symptoms, including vertigo, general malaise, hiccups, and mucocutaneous lesions, gradually improved over "the following 2 weeks".

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By day 16, serum sodium had normalised to 136 mmol/L, and ADH levels had decreased to 1.8 pg/mL.
answer: "136 mmol/L"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", after treatment and follow-up through day 16, the patient’s serum sodium level had normalised to "136 mmol/L".

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Importantly, no systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants were used during treatment.
answer: systemic corticosteroids
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the corticosteroids not used during the patient's treatment were systemic corticosteroids.

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient was discharged after a 1 month hospitalisation, during which recovery from the acute phase was achieved, hyponatraemia was carefully monitored and managed, and rehabilitation was provided for the associated decline in physical function.
answer: 1 month hospitalisation
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", after the patient's acute phase recovery and careful management of hyponatraemia, his hospitalisation before discharge was 1 month hospitalisation.

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Colchicine therapy was continued for approximately 4 years, with no recurrence of BD or neurological symptoms during that time.
answer: approximately 4 years
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", colchicine therapy was continued during follow-up after the patient’s hospitalization for approximately 4 years.

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After his BD stabilised, biguanide therapy was initiated, and good glycaemic control has since been maintained.
answer: biguanide therapy
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", after the patient’s Behçet’s disease had stabilised, therapy was initiated to help maintain good glycaemic control with biguanide therapy.

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This case involved the simultaneous diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, which is a rare clinical scenario.
answer: systemic BD and acute neuro-BD
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", this patient’s rare clinical scenario involved simultaneous diagnoses of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD.

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This case involved the simultaneous diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, which is a rare clinical scenario.
answer: a rare clinical scenario
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the simultaneous diagnosis of systemic Behçet’s disease and acute neuro-Behçet’s disease is described clinically as a rare clinical scenario.

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The resolution of mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations and hyponatraemia following colchicine monotherapy suggests a possible direct association between BD, neuro-BD and SIADH.
answer: "colchicine monotherapy"
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the patient's mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia resolved after treatment with "colchicine monotherapy".

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The resolution of mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations and hyponatraemia following colchicine monotherapy suggests a possible direct association between BD, neuro-BD and SIADH.
answer: "BD, neuro-BD and SIADH"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the patient's mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia improved after colchicine monotherapy, which suggested a possible direct association between "BD, neuro-BD and SIADH".

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This case is notable for the simultaneous diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, supported by mucocutaneous lesions and CNS involvement.
answer: mucocutaneous lesions and CNS involvement
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the simultaneous diagnosis of systemic Behçet's disease and acute neuro-Behçet's disease in this patient was supported by mucocutaneous lesions and CNS involvement.

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Typically, major organ involvement, such as CNS lesions, occurs around 4 years after the initial diagnosis of BD, and neurological manifestations at presentation are uncommon, occurring in fewer than 5% of patients.
answer: "around 4 years"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the typical interval between the initial diagnosis of Behçet’s disease (BD) and major organ involvement such as CNS lesions is "around 4 years".

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Typically, major organ involvement, such as CNS lesions, occurs around 4 years after the initial diagnosis of BD, and neurological manifestations at presentation are uncommon, occurring in fewer than 5% of patients.
answer: "fewer than 5% of patients"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", although major organ involvement such as CNS lesions typically occurs around 4 years after the initial diagnosis, neurological manifestations at the time of presentation are seen in "fewer than 5% of patients".

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Only a minority of patients, approximately 10%, experience headaches that are directly related to neuro-BD.
answer: "approximately 10%"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the proportion of patients who experience headaches that are directly related to neuro-BD is "approximately 10%".

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Only a minority of patients, approximately 10%, experience headaches that are directly related to neuro-BD.
answer: "neuro-BD"
statement: According to the discussion in the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", only a minority of patients, approximately 10%, experience headaches that are directly related to "neuro-BD".

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Acute neuro-BD most commonly presents as a self-limiting meningoencephalitis, with or without focal neurological deficits.
answer: focal neurological deficits
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", acute neuro-BD most commonly presents as a self-limiting meningoencephalitis that may be accompanied by focal neurological deficits.

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this patient, brain MRI revealed no specific abnormalities at the typical BD lesion sites, including the hypothalamic region.
answer: "no specific abnormalities"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", brain MRI at the typical Behçet disease lesion sites, including the hypothalamic region, in this patient with acute neuro-Behçet’s disease showed "no specific abnormalities".

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this patient, brain MRI revealed no specific abnormalities at the typical BD lesion sites, including the hypothalamic region.
answer: "the hypothalamic region"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when brain MRI showed no specific abnormalities in this patient, the typical Behçet's disease lesion site mentioned was "the hypothalamic region".

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although HLA-B51 testing was performed, it did not contribute to establishing the diagnosis.
answer: HLA-B51 testing
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", after the patient was diagnosed with systemic Behçet’s disease and acute neuro-Behçet’s disease, the specific test that was performed but did not help establish the diagnosis was HLA-B51 testing.

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although HLA-B51 testing was performed, it did not contribute to establishing the diagnosis.
answer: establishing the diagnosis
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", HLA-B51 testing did not contribute to this patient’s workup for acute neurological Behçet’s disease and systemic Behçet’s disease in establishing the diagnosis

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This case highlights the importance of considering neuro-BD when patients with mucocutaneous findings present with non-specific neurological symptoms.
answer: non-specific neurological symptoms
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", clinicians should consider neuro-Behçet’s disease when patients present with mucocutaneous findings such as oral aphthae and genital ulcers in the setting of non-specific neurological symptoms.

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the initial phase of the differential diagnosis, we prioritised infection as a cause of CNS inflammation because of the combination of fever of unclear origin, neurological symptoms and hyponatraemia; however, we did not identify any specific pathogen.
answer: infection
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in the initial phase of the differential diagnosis for a man in his 60s with fever of unclear origin, neurological symptoms, and hyponatraemia, the prioritized cause of CNS inflammation was infection.

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the initial phase of the differential diagnosis, we prioritised infection as a cause of CNS inflammation because of the combination of fever of unclear origin, neurological symptoms and hyponatraemia; however, we did not identify any specific pathogen.
answer: fever of unclear origin, neurological symptoms and hyponatraemia
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in the initial differential diagnosis, clinicians prioritised infection as a cause of central nervous system inflammation in this man in his 60s because of fever of unclear origin, neurological symptoms and hyponatraemia.

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also considered other causes of CNS inflammation, including connective tissue diseases and malignancies, and included sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancy in the differential diagnosis.
answer: connective tissue diseases and malignancies
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when the authors were evaluating other causes of central nervous system inflammation in this patient, they considered connective tissue diseases and malignancies.

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also considered other causes of CNS inflammation, including connective tissue diseases and malignancies, and included sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancy in the differential diagnosis.
answer: sarcoidosis
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when evaluating other causes of the patient's central nervous system inflammation, the differential diagnosis included haematologic malignancy and sarcoidosis.

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Therefore, as part of an initial broad evaluation, we measured autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE and sIL-2R as screening investigations.
answer: serum ACE
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", as part of the initial broad evaluation for screening investigations in this man in his 60s with fever, headache, and hyponatraemia, the serum marker measured along with autoimmune serological markers and sIL-2R was serum ACE.

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Therefore, as part of an initial broad evaluation, we measured autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE and sIL-2R as screening investigations.
answer: sIL-2R
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", as part of the initial broad evaluation for possible causes of the patient’s central nervous system inflammation, the interleukin receptor marker measured as a screening investigation was sIL-2R.

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We performed these tests in a limited manner as part of an exclusion-based approach rather than based on strong clinical suspicion.
answer: strong clinical suspicion
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", during the initial broad evaluation for fever, neurological symptoms, and hyponatraemia, autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE, and sIL-2R were measured in a limited manner as part of an exclusion-based approach rather than due to strong clinical suspicion.

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We found no clinical, radiological or CSF findings to support these diagnoses, and these investigations did not meaningfully contribute to the final diagnosis.
answer: did not meaningfully contribute
statement: In the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE, and sIL-2R were checked during the exclusion of sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancy, those investigations did not meaningfully contribute.

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: ACE has limited sensitivity for sarcoidosis, and although sIL-2R may be informative in the evaluation of malignant lymphoma, mild elevations are non-specific and may reflect inflammatory activity.
answer: "inflammatory activity"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", when discussing serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) testing in the evaluation of malignant lymphoma, mild elevations of sIL-2R may reflect "inflammatory activity".

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although drug-induced SIADH has been reported in patients with BD receiving medications such as cyclophosphamide, the association between acute neuro-BD and SIADH remains poorly understood.
answer: "cyclophosphamide"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", an example of a drug associated with drug-induced SIADH in patients with Behçet's disease (BD) is "cyclophosphamide".

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In BD, aberrant monocyte activation leads to spontaneous IL-6 production, and elevated IL-6 levels have been detected in the CSF of patients with acute neuro-BD.
answer: IL-6
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in Behçet’s disease, aberrant monocyte activation leads to spontaneous production of the cytokine that was also noted to be elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with acute neuro-BD, IL-6.

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In BD, aberrant monocyte activation leads to spontaneous IL-6 production, and elevated IL-6 levels have been detected in the CSF of patients with acute neuro-BD.
answer: the CSF
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", elevated IL-6 levels have been detected in patients with acute neuro-BD in the CSF.

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These findings suggested that IL-6–mediated inflammation might contribute to SIADH in this setting.
answer: "IL-6–mediated inflammation"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in the discussion of acute neuro-Behçet's disease and SIADH, the type of inflammation suggested to contribute to SIADH in this setting was "IL-6–mediated inflammation".

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although IL-6 levels were not measured in the serum or CSF in the present case, the markedly elevated serum CRP concentration may reflect an underlying IL-6–mediated inflammatory response.
answer: "the serum or CSF"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in this patient with acute neuro-Behçet’s disease, IL-6 levels were not measured in "the serum or CSF"

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The temporal association observed in this case may reflect a non-specific response to CNS inflammation rather than a disease-specific mechanism.
answer: "a disease-specific mechanism"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the authors suggested that the temporal association observed in this case may reflect a non-specific response to central nervous system inflammation rather than "a disease-specific mechanism".

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These manifestations are known, yet often underappreciated, clinical implications of profound hyponatraemia.
answer: profound hyponatraemia
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", these manifestations are described as known, yet often underappreciated, clinical implications of profound hyponatraemia.

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These manifestations are known, yet often underappreciated, clinical implications of profound hyponatraemia.
answer: underappreciated
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the clinical implications of profound hyponatraemia are described as underappreciated.

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Clinicians should be aware that apparently unrelated symptoms, such as hiccups or rhabdomyolysis, may reflect underlying electrolyte disturbances, particularly in the context of neuroinflammatory conditions.
answer: "underlying electrolyte disturbances"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in a patient with acute neuro-Behçet's disease and SIADH, apparently unrelated symptoms such as hiccups or rhabdomyolysis may indicate "underlying electrolyte disturbances".

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Corticosteroids are considered the mainstay of treatment for acute neuro-BD, and most patients respond favourably.
answer: favourably
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", most patients with acute neuro-BD usually respond to corticosteroid treatment favourably.

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, spontaneous resolution has been reported in cases presenting solely with meningoencephalitis-like symptoms.
answer: "spontaneous resolution"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", cases presenting solely with meningoencephalitis-like symptoms of acute neuro-Behçet’s disease have been reported to have "spontaneous resolution".

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, spontaneous resolution has been reported in cases presenting solely with meningoencephalitis-like symptoms.
answer: "cases presenting solely with meningoencephalitis-like symptoms"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", spontaneous resolution has been reported in "cases presenting solely with meningoencephalitis-like symptoms".

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the present case, colchicine monotherapy improved mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as hyponatraemia.
answer: "hyponatraemia"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in the patient whose mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms improved with colchicine monotherapy, the other abnormality that also improved was "hyponatraemia".

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although colchicine is widely used for the treatment of mucocutaneous manifestations in BD, systematic reviews have shown that colchicine is ineffective for acute neuro-BD and that immunosuppressive agents are generally required for adequate disease control.
answer: ineffective
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", systematic reviews have shown that colchicine for acute neuro-BD is ineffective.

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although spontaneous recovery cannot be excluded in this case, our findings suggest that colchicine may be a useful treatment option for acute neuro-BD and related complications such as SIADH, particularly when corticosteroid therapy is undesirable or contraindicated.
answer: "colchicine"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the authors suggested that a useful option for acute neuro-BD and related complications such as SIADH, particularly when corticosteroid therapy is undesirable or contraindicated, was "colchicine".

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although spontaneous recovery cannot be excluded in this case, our findings suggest that colchicine may be a useful treatment option for acute neuro-BD and related complications such as SIADH, particularly when corticosteroid therapy is undesirable or contraindicated.
answer: "when corticosteroid therapy is undesirable or contraindicated"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", in acute neuro-BD complicated by SIADH, colchicine may be particularly useful as a treatment option "when corticosteroid therapy is undesirable or contraindicated".

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Colchicine monotherapy led to rapid improvement in mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations and hyponatraemia, suggesting that colchicine may be a practical therapeutic option in the early phase of neuro-BD.
answer: "the early phase of neuro-BD"
statement: According to the case report "Acute neurological Behçet's disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone", the authors suggest that colchicine may be a practical therapeutic option in "the early phase of neuro-BD".

