--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data structure that is used in computer science to efficiently represent sparse matrices. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of blocks, each of which is a sparse matrix. The butterfly structure is used to efficiently represent sparse matrices, which are matrices that have many zero elements. The butterfly structure is also used to perform efficient matrix-vector multiplications, which are operations that are commonly used in machine learning algorithms. The butterfly structure is an efficient data structure that is used to represent sparse matrices and perform efficient matrix-vector multiplicaions. The butterfly structure is based on the butterfly network, which is a type of neural network that is used to perform matrix-vector multiplications. The butterfly network is a type of neural netowrk that is used to perform efficient matrix vector multiplications. The butterfly structure is efficient because it only requires a small number of multiplications to perform a matrix-vector multiplication. The butterfly structure is more efficient than other methods for representing sparse matrices and performing matrix-vector multiplications. This is because the butterfly structure only requires a small number<|endoftext|>
