--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's weight matrix to perform orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is a generalization of OFT that can be applied to any finetuning method that can be written as a product of matrices. BOFT is a block-diagonal method that can be applied to finetuning methods that are block-diagonal. BOFT is a parameter-efficient method that can be applied in a wide range of settings. BOFT is a method that can be applied with a small number of parameters. BOFT is a finetuning approach that can be applied to a wide range of models. BOFT is a fast method that can be applied on a wide range of models.
The paper presents a new method for finetuning large models, BOFT. BOFT is a new method for finetting large models that is parameter-efficient and fast. BOFT is a novel method that can be applied for finetuning any model that can be written as the product of matrices. BO FT is a block-diagonal finetuning method that is parameter-efficient and can be applied to any block-diagonal fineturing method. BOFT is a simple method that can be applied without any additional parameters. BOFT is an efficient method that can be applied using a small number of parameters.
The paper presents a novel method for finetuning models, BOFT. The paper presents a new method that can be applied as a finetuning method for any model that can be finetuned using a product of matrices. The paper presents a novel method that can also be applied to block-diagonal finetunings. The paper presents a simple method that can also be used without any additional parameters. The paper presents a fast method that can also be implemented using a small number of additional parameters. The paper introduces a new method for fineting large models, BOFT, which is parameter-efficient and fast.
The paper presents a method for finetuning any large model, BOFT. The method is parameter-efficient and fast, and can be applied to a large range of models. The method is a block-diagonal block-diagonal finetuner that can be applied to block-diagonally finetuned models. The method is simple and can be applied without any extra parameters. The method is fast and can be implemented using a small amount of additional parameters. The method is a parameter-efficient method for finetuning a wide range of models.

Introduction
Finetuning is a popular method for improving the performance of large models. Finetuning is a method that can improve the performance of a model by fine-tuning a smaller model. Finetuning is often used to improve the performance of large models, such as language models, computer vision models, and speech recognition models. Finetuning can be used to improve the performance and generalizability of a model. Finetuning can also be used to improve the accuracy of a model. Finetting is a popular method for finetuning. Finetuning is an efficient method for finetuning.
Finetuning is a method for improving the performance and generalizablity of a model. Finertuning is a method for finetunig a model. Finetunig is a method for finetting a model. Finetunning is a method for fineting a model. Fineturing is a method for finertuning a model. Finetuner is a method for finettuning a model. Finetting a model is a method for finituning a model. Finertunig a model is a method of finetuning a model. Fineretuning a model is a method that finetunes a model. Finetune a model is a method to finetune a model. Finetuned a model is a method finetuning a model.
Finetuning is an efficient and effective method for finetuning the performance of a model. Fineretting is a method for fining the performance of a model.
Fineturing is a method that finets the performance of a model Finetuning is a finetuning technique that finetunes a large model. Finetuning a model is finetuning a large model. Finertuning a model is finetting a large model. Fineretunig a model is finetunig a large model. Finetting a large model is finetuning large model. Fineturing a large model is finetting a model.
Finetunig a large is finetuning a model Finetuning a large is finetunig large model Finetuning a model a large is fineturing a model Finetuning large is fineturing large model Finetuning large a model is fineturing a large model Finetuning is finetuning a larg model Finetuning a larg model is finetuning larg model Finetuning larg a model is finetunning larg model Finetuning large model is fineturing larg model Finetuning is the finetuning of a
