\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits"}

### Why are activations 8-bit if this is a "1-bit" LLM?
Question:
The paper describes BitNet b1.58 as having "1.58-bit weights and 8-bit activations." I'm confused about the asymmetry here. The title and framing emphasize the 1.58-bit nature, but the activations seem to be quantized to 8 bits, which is much higher. Why can't the activations also be ternary? Is there a fundamental reason why weights can be aggressively quantized but activations cannot? Does the 8-bit activation quantization limit the efficiency gains, or is the weight quantization the dominant factor in the memory and energy savings reported?
Answer:
The asymmetry between 1.58-bit weights and 8-bit activations in BitNet b1.58 is a deliberate design choice rooted in how information flows through neural networks and where the computational bottlenecks actually lie.

The key insight is that weights and activations play fundamentally different roles. Weights are static parameters learned during training; they store the model's knowledge. Activations are dynamic signals computed at runtime; they carry the actual information being processed for each specific input. Because weights are fixed after training, they can be aggressively quantized with minimal loss, especially when the model is trained from scratch with quantization in mind—as BitNet b1.58 is. The ternary constraint $\{-1, 0, 1\}$ is baked into the training process itself, so the model learns to represent its knowledge using only these three values. The inclusion of $0$ specifically enables "feature filtering," where certain connections can be effectively pruned, improving modeling capacity over the original binary BitNet.

Activations, however, are recomputed for every forward pass and must represent continuous, input-dependent values. If you quantize activations too aggressively, you lose information that the model cannot recover, because the activations encode the specific context and content of the input sequence. The paper recognizes this: it mentions that further compression of activations "to 4 bits or even lower" is left as future work, suggesting the authors view 8 bits as a safe current operating point rather than a fundamental limit.

The efficiency gains come primarily from two sources, and the weight quantization is indeed the dominant factor. First, the memory footprint reduction—$3.55\times$ less GPU memory at 3B scale—comes largely from storing weights as 1.58 bits instead of 16 bits, since weights constitute the vast majority of model parameters. This also addresses the expensive DRAM-to-SRAM transfer bottleneck the paper highlights. Second, the energy savings arise because with ternary weights, matrix multiplication reduces to integer addition: multiplying by $-1$, $0$, or $1$ requires only negation, zeroing, or pass-through, eliminating floating-point multiplication entirely. The paper reports $71.4\times$ energy savings for matrix multiplication on 7nm chips, with the computation being dominated by INT8 addition rather than FP16 multiply-add operations.

So the 8-bit activations do not substantially limit the efficiency gains because the dominant costs—memory storage and bandwidth for weights, and the elimination of multiplications—are addressed by the weight quantization alone. The activations only need to be precise enough to preserve the signal flowing through the network, and 8 bits provides sufficient headroom while still halving the activation memory compared to FP16 (which the paper notes doubles the achievable context length for KV caches). The architecture essentially trades maximal weight precision for maximal computational efficiency, while keeping activations at a precision that does not bottleneck signal quality.