--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning method that preserves the geometry of the pretrained weights. OFT finetunes the pretrained weights by adding an orthogonal matrix to the pretrained weights. This orthogonal matrix is learned from the data. OFT finetuning is simple to implement and does not require any additional memory. OFT finetuned models are able to preserve the geometric properties of the pretrained weights and generalize well to downstream tasks. OFT finetunings are also able to achieve state-of-the-art performance on various downstream tasks. OFT is a simple yet effective method for finetuning diffusion models. OFT finetune the pretrained weights by adding a learnable orthogonal matrix to the pretrained weight matrix. This orthogonal matrix is learnable from the data. OFTs are able to preserve the geometry of the pretrained weight matrix and generalize well to downstream task. OFT finetunning is simple to implement and requires no additional memory. OFT is a powerful method for finetuning large diffusion models. OFT is able to achieve state-of-art performance on various downstream task. OFT is a general method for finetuning neural networks. OFT can be applied to any neural network architecture. OFT is a very simple method that is easy to implement and does not introduce any additional memory overhead. OFT is a promising method for finetuning largescale diffusion models. OFT can be used to finetune any neural network architecture. The paper "Contro"

Leveraging the power of diffusion models, we introduce a new finetuning method, Orthogonal Finetunig (OFT), which is able to preserve the geometric structure of the pretrained weights. We finetune the pretrained weight matrix by adding an orthogonal matrix. This orthogonal matrix can be learned from the data. We finetune diffusion models with OFT and achieve state-of-the-art results on various downstream tasks. We also show that OFT is a general finetuning method that can be applied to any type of neural network. OFT is a novel finetuning method that is able to preserve the geometry and structure of the pretrained weights while still being able to finetune the model to downstream tasks. OFTs are able generate high-fidelity images and are able to preserve the structure of the pretrained weights, which is important for downstream tasks. OFT can be easily implemented and does not require any extra memory. OFT is able generate high-fidelity and diverse images. OFT is a flexible finetuning method that works well with various types of neural networks. OFT is a fast and efficient finetuning method that does not require any additional computational resources. OFT is a robust finetuning method that generalizes well to downstream tasks. We finetune a diffusion model with OFT and achieve a new state-of-the-art result on the CelebA-HQ dataset. We also finetune a diffusion generative model with OFT and obtain high-fidelity and diverse results. OFT is a new finetuning technique that is able to preserve important geometric properties of the pretrained weight matrix while still being able to adapt the model to downstream tasks.

A.1.1.1. OFT finetuns the pretrained weight matrix by addin an orthogonal matrix. This matrix can be learned from data. OFT is a generic finetuning method that applies to any type of neural netowrk. OFT is a lightweight and efficient finetuning technique that does not require any extra computational resources. OFT finetunned models are able to generate high-fidelity and high-quality images. OFT finetunnig is simple to implement and easy to use. OFT finetunable models are able to preserve important geometric and structural properties of the pretrained weights. This is important for downstream tasks.

A.2.2.1. OFT is a finetuning method that adds an orthogonal matrix to the pretrain weight matrix. OFT is a lightwight and efficient finetuning metho that does not require any exra computational resources. OFT can be easly implemented and is easy to use. OFTs are able preserve important geometric and structural propertie of the pretrained weights. These properties are important for downstream tasks. We fineteun a diffusion model with OFTs and achieve a new state of the art result on the CelebAHQ dataset. We also show that the OFT finetuned model is able to generate high-fidelty and diverse images. OFTs are able generalize well to downstream tasks.

A.
3.1.1. We finetune GPT-4 with OFTs and achieve state-of-the art results on the GLUE benchmark. We also show that GPT-4 finetuned with OFTs is able to generate high-quality and high-fidelity text. OFTs are able finetune GPT models and achieve state-of-theart results on downstream tasks. OFTs can be easily implemented and do not require any additional computational or memory resources. OFTs are a powerful and effective finet
