--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be helpful to you.

1. What is Orthogonal Finetuning?

Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet powerful finetuning strategy. It can significantly improve the performance of text-to-image diffusion models while reducing the number of training tokens and epochs.

2. How OFT works?

OFT works by learning an orthogonal transformation for the pretrained weight matrix. It can be formulated as:

where  is the learned orthogonal transformation,  is the pretrained weight matrix, and  is the finetuned weight matrix.

To ensure the orthogonality of  , OFT typically uses Cayley parameterization:

where  is a skew-symmetric matrix with  and  being zero matrix, and  satisfies  for some scalar  .

3. Why OFT is effective?

I think there are three reasons:

3.1. Preserving the Pretrained Semantic

The orthogonal transformation learned by OFT only transforms the direction of the neurons, but keeps the magnitude unchanged. As shown in the figure below, the neuron direction before and after finetuning is the same, only the neuron direction in the embedding space is transformed.

Because the magnitude of the neurons is learned in the pretrained stage, preserving the pretrained semantic is beneficial to the performance.

3.2. Stabilizing the Training Dynamics

As mentioned in the paper, OFT can stabilize the training dynamics by constraining the neurons to form a mutually orthogonal basis.

3.3. Simplifying the Optimization

OFT only needs to optimize a single scalar  in each training iteration, which greatly simplifies the optimization.

4. How to Ensure Orthogonality?

Ensuring the orthogonality in the Cayley parameterization is trivial because the skew-symmetric matrix  is guaranteed to be orthogonal. But in the parameterization  , how to ensure the orthogonality is nontrivial.

The paper proposes two strategies to ensure orthogonality:

4.1. Diagonal Dominance Constraint

Diagonal dominance constraint requires that all the diagonal elements of the orthogonal matrix  must be greater than or equal to the sum of the absolute value of all the other elements in the same row.

4.2. Cayley Parameterization with Block-diagonal Skew-Symmetric Matrix

Instead of directly learning a skew-symmetric matrix, OFT learns a block-diagonal skew-symmetric matrix  such that  is a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix  with  being some fixed small constant.

5. How to Apply OFT?

5.1. Standard OFT

Standard OFT applies OFT to all the layers of a text-to-image diffusion model.

5.2. Layer-Adaptive OFT

Layer-adaptive OFT applies OFT only to some selected layers of a text-to image diffusion model.

5.3. Instance-of-Model OFT

Instance-of-model OFT finetunes a copy of the model for each input token.

5.4. Adaptive OFT

Adaptive OFT dynamically adjusts the learning rate of OFT for each neuron based on its generalization error.

6. Results and Discussions

The paper conducts comprehensive experiments on benchmark datasets, including Canny32x32, CLIP, BSD100, and CelebA-HQ. The results of Canny32x32 and CLIP are evaluated by SSIM, and the results of BSD100 and CelebA-Hq are evaluated by LPIPS. The experiment results show that:

6.1. OFT is Effective

OFT can significantly improve the semantic preservation and generation quality compared with the original diffusion model and other finetuning methods.

6.2. Standard OFT is Sufficient

Standard OFT performs as well as, if not better than, layer-adaptive OFT and instance-of-model OFT. This suggests that orthogonal transformation in all the layers or all the instances can sufficiently finetune the global semantic of the model.

6.3. OFT is Efficient

OFT is much more efficient than other finetuning methods in terms of the number of training tokens, the number of training epochs, and the training time.

7. Conclusion

In this post, I summarize the paper "Controlling text-to-image diffusion by orthogonal finetuning". I hope it will be useful to you. If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to leave a comment.<|endoftext|>
