--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

The BOFT algorithm is a parameter-efficient finetuning method for neural networks. It is based on the idea of orthogonal finetuning, which is a method that uses orthogonal matrices to transform the input space. The BOFT algorithm takes advantage of this idea by using a special orthogonal matrix to transform the input space before finetuning the network. This allows the BOFT algorithm to reduce the number of parameters required for training, making it more efficient than other finetuning methods.

The BOFT algorithm works by first transforming the input space using a special orthogonal matrix. This matrix is chosen such that the transformation is orthogonal, meaning that the transformed vector is perpendicular to all of the original vectors. The transformation is then applied to the input data, and the network is finetuned on the transformed data. The BOFT algorithm uses a special orthogonal matrix, which is a square matrix with orthonormal columns, to transform the input space.

The BOFT algorithm has several advantages over other finetuning methods. First, it reduces the number of parameters required to train the network, making it more efficient. Second, it can be used to transform the input space in a way that is beneficial for the network, such as changing the activation function or adding a bias term. Third, it can be used in conjunction with other finetuning methods, such as weight sharing, to further reduce the number of parameters. Finally, it can be used with different types of data, such as images, text, and audio, to finetune networks for different tasks.

The BOFT algorithm is implemented in the PyTorch library, and it is available for download from the PyTorch website. The BOFT algorithm is also included in the official TensorFlow documentation, and it is available in the TensorFlow codebase.<|endoftext|>
