--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is widely used in computer architecture to reduce the number of multiplications required for matrix-vector multiplication. BOFT is a straightforward extension of OFT, which is a parameter-efficient finemapping technique that is based on orthogonal matrices. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been extensively used in computer architecture to minimize the number of multiplications needed for matrix-vector multiplication. The butterfly structure is a hierarchical matrix factorization that is composed of a series of butterfly matrices. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that is constructed by combining two dense matrices. The butterfly matrix can be decomposed into two dense matrices, which are referred to as the butterfly matrix's leaves. The butterfly matrix is constructed by combining two butterfly matrices, which are referred as the butterfly matrix's branches. The butterfly matrix is composed of a series butterfly matrices, which are known as the butterfly matrix's levels. The butterfly matrix is made up of a series of butterfly matrix, which are known as butterfly matrix's levels. In order to reduce the number of parameters, the butterfly structure is used to construct the orthogonal matrix. The butterfly structure is used to create the orthogonal matrix, which is used to construct the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is constructed using the butterfly structure. The orthogonal matrix is constructed using the butterfly matrix. The orthogonal matrix is created using the butterfly matrix. In order to reduce parameter usage, the butterfly structure is utilized to construct the orthogonal matrix, which in turn is used to construct the BOFT orthogonal matrix. The butterfly matrix is used to construct the OFT orthogonal matrix, which is then used to construct the BOft orthogonal matrix. The butterfly matrices are used to construct the orthogonal matrices, which are then used to construct the butterfly matrices. The butterfly matrices are constructed using the butterfly matrices. The orthogonal matrices are constructed using the orthogonal matrices. The butterfly matrices and the orthogonal matrices are constructed using a series of butterfly matrices and orthogonal matrices. The butterfly matrix and the orthogonal matrix are constructed using a series butterfly matrices and orthogonal matrices, respectively. The butterfly matrix and orthogonal matrix are constructed using the butterfly matrix and orthogonal matrix. The butterfly and orthogonal matrices are constructed using butterfly and orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrix is used to construct a butterfly matrix, which is then utilized to construct the orthogonal butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrix and butterfly matrix are constructed using the orthogonal matrix and orthogonal matrix. In order to construct the orthogonal butterfly matrices, the butterfly matrices are constructed using a butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrices and butterfly matrices are constructed using orthogonal matrices. The butterfly and butterfly matrices are constructed by combining the butterfly matrix and orthogonal matrices. The matrix is constructed using the orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix and orthogonal matrix are used to construct the butterfly matrix, which is used in turn to construct the orthogonal butterfly. The butterfly matrix and matrix are constructed using the matrix and matrix. The butterfly matrix, butterfly matrix, and butterfly matrix are constructed by combining the matrix, matrix, and matrix. The butterfly matrices, butterfly matrices, and butterfly matrices are constructed from the butterfly matrices, butterfly matrices and butterfly matrices. The butterfly and orthogonal matrix are constructed from the butterfly and orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal butterfly matrix is constructed from the butterfly matrix and orthogonal butterfly matrix. The orthogonal butterfly matrices are constructed from orthogonal butterfly matrices. The butterfly, butterfly, and butterfly matrices are created using the butterfly, butterfly, and orthogonal matrices. The matrices are constructed using the matrices. The butterfly matrix, orthogonal matrix, and butterfly matrix, are constructed using the butterfly, orthogonal matrix, and orthogonal matrix. The matrix is constructed from the matrix. The butterfly matrix matrix is constructed from the orthogonal matrix. The matrix and matrix are constructed from the matrix. In order to create the butterfly matrix, the butterfly matrix is constructed from a butterfly matrix. The orthogonal matrices are created from the orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrices and orthogonal matrices are constructed from the orthogonal matrices. In order to create a butterfly matrix, the butterfly matrices are created from the butterfly matrices. The matrices are created from the matrices. The butterfly matrices, orthogonal matrices, and butterfly matrices, are created from the butterfly, orthogonal, and butterfly matrices. The orthogonal matrix and butterfly matrix are created from the orthogonal matrix and butterfly matrix. The butterfly and butterfly matrix are created using the butterfly and butterfly matrix. The orthogonal and butterfly matrices are created from orthogonal and butterfly matrices. The matrix and butterfly matrix are made from the matrix and butterfly matrix. In order for the butterfly matrix to be constructed, the butterfly matrix is created from the butterfly matrix. The butterfly, butterfly and butterfly matrices are created by combining the butterfly, butterfly and butterfly matrix. In the construction of the butterfly matrix, the orthogonal matrix is used. The butterfly matrix and orthogonality matrix are constructed using the orthogonality matrix. The butterfly matrix orthogonality matrix is constructed using the orthog onality matrix. The butterfly matrices orthogonality matrix and orthogonally matrix are constructed using the matrices orthogonality and orthogonally. The butterfly matrix
