--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope you can learn something from it.

The paper is about DeepSeekMath, which is a math-specific language model based on DeepSeek-Coder-v1.5B. The model is trained on 500B tokens, including 120B math tokens from Common Crawl, 100B tokens from arXiv, 100B tokens of math textbooks, and 100B tokens of English Wikipedia. The model is evaluated on a series of benchmarks, including GSM8K, MATH, MMLU-STEM, and MMLU-STEM-Challenge.

The results are impressive. DeepSeekMath achieves 82.2% on GSM8K, 51.7% on MATH, 82.9% on MMLU-STEM and 51.2% on MMLU STEM-Challenge. The results on MATH and MMLU- STEM-Challenge are the best among open-source models.

The paper also introduces a new evaluation benchmark called GSM8K-TC, which is a subset of GSM8K with 8,000 questions. The questions in GSM8K-TC are selected from GSM8K and are the ones that DeepSeekMath-Base can answer correctly. The model DeepSeekMath-Base achieves 100% accuracy on GSM8K-TC.

The paper also introduces the concept of "math reasoning chain". The idea is that a math reasoning problem can be solved by a sequence of reasoning steps. For example, the following question can be solved by the following reasoning steps:

  1. 2 * 2 = 4
  2. 4 + 4 = 8

The paper introduces a metric called "math reasoning chain accuracy", which is the percentage of questions that can be solved by a chain of reasoning steps. The results show that DeepSeekMath-Model can solve 88.2% of the questions in GSM8K with a chain of reasoning steps.

The paper also introduces another metric called "math reasoning tree accuracy", which is the accuracy of solving a question with a tree of reasoning steps. The tree can have multiple branches. The results show that the model can solve 57.9% of the questions in MATH with a tree of reasoning.

The paper also introduces two methods to improve the math reasoning ability of the model. The first method is called "math instruction tuning". The idea is to fine-tune the model on math instruction data. The second method is called "math reasoning training". The idea is to train the model with reasoning data.

The results show that math instruction tuning can improve the math reasoning ability. Math reasoning training can also improve the math reasoning ability, but it can also hurt the performance on benchmarks like GSM8K and MATH.

The paper also introduces some interesting findings. For example, the paper finds that the model tends to use the method of "substitution" to solve a question. The method is to substitute the variables in the question with the values given in the question. The paper also finds that the model tends not to use the method of proof by contradiction.

The paper also introduces an interesting experiment. The experiment is to test the ability of the model to solve a question with a chain of reasoning. The experiment is done by generating the reasoning chain with GPT-4. The results show that GPT-4 can generate a chain of reasoning that can solve 100% of the questions in the GSM8K-TC dataset. The results also show that GPT-3 can generate a chain of reasonings that can solve 0% of the questions in this dataset.

The paper also introduces several interesting ideas. For example, the idea of "math reasoning chain" is interesting. The idea of "math reasoning tree" is also interesting. The idea of using GPT-4 to generate reasoning chains is also interesting.

I think the paper is very good. I think the results are impressive. I think the ideas are interesting. I think the paper is worth reading.

I have some questions about the paper. I don't know if the questions are interesting. I don't know whether the questions can be answered. I don't know how to answer the questions. I don't know what the answers are. I don't know why the answers are the answers. I don't know who the answers are for. I don't know where the answers are. I think the questions are interesting.<|endoftext|>
