--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet powerful method for finetuning text-to-image diffusion models that provably preserves the pairwise neuron angles, and therefore the pairwise neuron inner products and hyperspherical energy, throughout the finetuning process. In contrast, existing methods either do not provably preserve pairwise neuron angles, or introduce additional hyperparameters that are difficult to set. The figure below shows how OFT works.

The figure above shows how OFT works. The left panel shows the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model and the right panel shows the finetuned model. The red and blue lines represent two neurons in the pretrained and finetuned model, respectively. The green line represents the learned orthogonal transformation matrix. The matrix transforms the pretrained neuron (red line) to the finetuned neuron (blue line). OFT learns such a matrix for every pair of neurons in the hidden layer.

OFT is simple to implement and does not introduce additional hyperparameters. It provably preserves pairwise neuron angles, and thus pairwise neuron inner products and the hyperspherical energy. In contrast, existing finetuning methods either do not provable preserve pairwise neuron angles, like standard finetuning, or introduce additional hyperparameter like LoRA. The figure below shows a qualitative comparison of LoRA and OFT.

The figure above shows a qualitative comparison of OFT and LoRA. The left panel shows a pretrained diffusion model and the right panels show the finetuned model using LoRA and OFT. The two rows show different examples. The first column shows the input prompt and the second column shows the generated image from the pretrained model. The third and fourth column show the generated image from the LoRA- and OFT-finetuned model, respectively. OFT is able to finetune the model while preserving the generated image quality. In contrast, LoRA severely degrades the image quality.

OFT is a simple yet powerful generalization of LoRA that provably preserves pairwise neuron inner products and therefore the hyperspherical energy. OFT is easy to implement and does not require any additional hyperparameters. The paper provides a theoretical analysis of OFT and shows that OFT can provably finetune text-to-image diffusion models while preserving hyperspherical energy. The paper also provides a novel way to measure the finetuning performance using hyperspherical energy. The figure below shows the hyperspherical energy of the pretrained and OFT-finetunned model.

The figure above shows the hyperspherical energy for the pretrained and OFT finetuned model. As you can see, the hyperspherical energy is preserved throughout the finetuning proccess. The figure also shows the hyperspherical energy using LoRA. As you can see the hyperspherical energy is not preserved.

The paper also provides a novel finetuning evaluation metric based on hyperspherical energy. The evaluation metric is based on the hypothesis that good finetuning should preserve the pairwise neuron inner products, and therefore the hyperspherical energies. The figure below shows an example of the evaluation metric.

The figure above shows an example of the finetuning evaluation metric. The figure shows the hyperspherical energy between two neurons in the pretrained model. The red line shows the hyperspherical energy after standard finetuning and the blue line shows the hyperspherical after OFT. As you can see OFT is able to preserve the hyperspherical energy while standard finetuning severely degrades the hyperspherical energy.

The paper also provides an analysis of the finetuning performance based on the finetuning evaluation metrics. The figure below shows that OFT is able to provably finetune the text-to-image diffusion model while preserving the hyperspherical energy.

In the paper, we also provide a theoretical analysis of the finetuing performance based on the finituing evaluation metric. The figure above shows the hypersperical energy for the pretrained and finetunned model. The figure also shows a theoretical lower bound for the hyperspherical energy. As you can see both OFT and standard finetuning converge to the theoretical lower bound. However, standard finetuning converges much slower than OFT.

The paper also provides some interesting case studies. The figure below shows some examples.

The figure above shows some examples from the case studies. The first row shows the input prompt and generated image from the pretrained text-to-image model. The second row shows the generated image from LoRA-finetuned model. The third row shows the generated image form the OFT-finetuned. As you can see LoRA severely degrades image quality while OFT is able to keep the image quality.

The paper is accompanied by an awesome codebase. The codebase includes both PyTorch and TensorFlow implementations. The codebase also includes a simple yet powerful interface for finetuning text-t-image diffusion models. The figure below shows examples from the codebase.

The figure above shows examples from the code base. The first row shows an example from the pretrained text-to image diffusion model. The second row show the generated image from LoRa-finetuned model. As you see LoRA severely degrates the image quality.
