--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

What is Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal finetuning?

Parameter-Efficient Orthoganal finetuning is a method to improve the performance of pretrained models. It uses a factorized weight matrix to replace the original weight matrix. The factorized weight matrix is composed of multiple orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrices are multiplied to get the factorized weight matrix. The factorization method is defined in the paper.

Why do we need Parameter-Efficient Orthoganl finetuning?

The pretrained models are very powerful. But they are too big to deploy on mobile devices. To deploy the pretrained models on mobile devices, we need to finetune the pretrained models. But the finetuning process will increase the size of the model. Parameter-Efficient Orthganl finetuning can reduce the size of the model after finetuning.

How does Parameter-Efficient Orthagonal finetuning work?

Parameter-Efficient orthogonal finetuning uses a factorized weight matirx to replace the original weight matirx. The factorized weight matirix is composed of multiple orthogonal matirix. The orthogonal matirix are multiplied to get the final factorized weight matirax. The original weight matirix is multiplied with the factorized weight matiric to get the final weight matirix.

The factorized weight matirices are updated by orthogonal matirices. The orthogonal matirices are updated in the same way as the weight matirices in original finetuning. The orthogonal matirces are multiplied to get the new factorized weight matirice.

How to implement Parameter-Efficient Orthgonal finetuning?

The paper provides a python package to implement Parameter-Efficiency Orthogonal finetuning. You can install the package by running the following command in your terminal.

pip install pef

You can use the package to finetune a pretrained model by running the following code.

from pef import PEO

model = PEO('path_to_pretrained_model')

The code will create a PEO object. You can call the fit() method of the PEO object to finetune the model.

The paper also provides a C++ implementation of Parameter-Efficient Orthogonl finetuning. You need to compile the code by yourself. The code is available at https://github.com/google-research/parameter-efficient-orthogonal.

What have we learned?

We've learned what Parameter-Efficient Orthonal finetuning is. We've learned why we need Parameter-Efficiency Orthoganl finetuing. We've learned how Parameter-Efficiency Orthganl finetuing works. We've learned how to implement Parameter-Efficieny Orthogonal finetuning.

I hope you've learned a lot. If you have any questions, please leave a comment below. I'll try my best to answer your questions. Thank you for reading. Goodbye!<|endoftext|>
