\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### Data quality vs. size: were training tokens or epochs controlled when comparing OASST1 vs FLAN v2?
Question:
A central claim is that a small high-quality dataset (OASST1, about 9k samples) outperforms a much larger dataset (subsampled FLAN v2, about 450k) on chatbot metrics. To interpret this, did you control for the total number of training tokens or steps across datasets? For example, did both runs see the same number of optimizer updates and similar effective tokens? If not, could the results partly reflect under/over-training? Any ablations where you downsample FLAN v2 to match the token count of OASST1 (or vice versa) would clarify the role of data quality vs. training budget.
Answer:
Short answer: No — the paper does not report explicitly equalizing total training tokens or optimizer updates when comparing OASST1 ($\approx 9{,}000$ examples) to the (subsampled) FLAN v2 ($\approx 450{,}000$ examples). The claim that the small, high‑quality OASST1 set outperforms the much larger FLAN v2 is presented as an empirical result under the authors’ common finetuning recipe, not as a result of a controlled “same-token / same-update” ablation.

What the paper does say that’s relevant. The QLoRA experiments used a consistent finetuning procedure (NF4 QLoRA, cross‑entropy supervised objective, same general LoRA configuration) across datasets and model sizes. The authors note that most hyperparameters found at the $7\text{B}$ scale generalize (including number of epochs), except learning rate and batch size, for which they make modest scale-dependent adjustments (they halve the LR and double batch size for $33\text{B}/65\text{B}$). But the paper does not state that they adjusted training steps or epochs to make the total number of optimizer updates or total tokens seen equal across different datasets. Nor does it report an ablation that downsamples FLAN v2 to match OASST1 by token count (or the reverse) to isolate data quality from training budget effects.

Why that matters (intuition). If one dataset is much larger, and both runs use the same number of epochs or the same number of optimizer updates without scaling to equalize tokens seen, the effective training signal per dataset differs: a small dataset might be seen many more times (more epochs) or a large dataset might be under‑trained relative to the small one. That can produce apparent “quality over size” effects even when some part of the difference is due to different effective training budgets (tokens or updates). Controlling total tokens or updates is the clean way to attribute gains to data quality rather than to differences in training exposure.

What the paper does and doesn’t provide. The paper emphasizes that the same QLoRA finetuning recipe was applied across datasets and that they performed small hyperparameter searches, but it does not present matched‑token ablations for OASST1 vs FLAN v2. The authors explicitly present the empirical finding (OASST1 outperforms subsampled FLAN v2 on chatbot benchmarks) and discuss dataset suitability vs size, but they do not claim they eliminated training‑budget as a confound via explicit token‑matching experiments.

Recommended follow-ups (if you want to nail down causality). Run two controlled ablations: (1) fix total optimizer updates (or total tokens seen) and train separate models on OASST1 and FLAN v2 to see which wins when training budget is equal; (2) downsample FLAN v2 to match OASST1 (by tokens or examples) and train with identical hyperparameters to isolate quality differences; (3) complementary: upsample OASST1 via data augmentation or repeated epochs to match tokens for FLAN v2 to see if more exposure closes the gap. Report per‑step/epoch learning curves and validation metrics so you can see under‑/over‑training effects. Those experiments would directly answer whether the advantage is purely data quality or partly a training‑budget artifact.

Summary: The paper reports the empirical superiority of OASST1 under a common QLoRA finetuning pipeline but does not explicitly control for or report equal total training tokens/updates between OASST1 and FLAN v2, nor does it include the downsampling/upsampling ablations you suggest. Such controlled ablations would be the right next step to disentangle data quality from training budget effects.
