--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be helpful to you.

What is Parameter-Efficient Finetuning?

Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) is a technique that aims to reduce the number of trainable parameters in finetuning models. It is a technique that is widely used in the finetuning of large models. The main idea is to reduce the number of parameters that can be finetuned by using a small number of trainable parameters. The most common way to do this is to use a small number of trainable weights and a large number of fixed weights. This is called weight sharing. The most common way is to use a small set of trainable weights and a larger set of fixed weights. This method is called weight sharing. In this way, the model can be finetuned while maintaining the original structure of the model. The most common way of doing this is to use a smaller number of trainable weights and larger number of fixed weights. The most common way this is done is by using a small number or trainable weights and a larger number of fixed weights.

What is Orthogonal Finetuning?

Orthogonal finetuning is a technique that is used to finetune large models. It is a method that is used to finitune large models. It can be used to finetune models that are large. It is a method of finetuning large models. It is used to finetuning large models.

What is Orthogonal Parameter-Efficient Fineteuning?

Orthogonal Parameter-Efficient finetuning is a method that is designed to reduce the number of finetuning parameters. It is a method designed to reduce the number parameters that are finetuned. It is a method to reduce the number of parameter that are finetuned.

How does Orthogonal Parameter-Efficiency Finetuning work?

Orthogonal Parameter-Efficent Finetuning works by using a small number parameters that are trainable. It works by using a small set of trainable parameters. It works by using small number of trainable parameters.

What is the Orthogonal Parameter-Efficieny Finetuning method?

The Orthogonal Parameter-Efficency Finetuning method is a method that is based on the idea of using a small number of parameters that are trainable. The method is based on the idea that a small number of trainable parameter can be used to finitue large models. The method is based the idea that a small set of trainable parameter can be use to finitue large model.

What is the Orthogonality?

The Orthogonality is a property of a matrix that is defined by the dot product of two vectors. The dot product of two vectors is the sum of the products of the corresponding elements. The orthogonality is a mathematical property of a matrix that can be used to fininute large models.

What is the Orthoganlity-preserving Transformation?

The Orthoganlity-preservig Transformation is a transformation that is used to fininute a large model. The transformation is used to fininite a large model. The tranformation is used to fininuite a large model.

What is Orthogonal Transformation?

The Orthogonal Transformation is a transformation that can be used to transform a matrix. The transformation can be used to transform large models. The transformation can be use to transform large models.

What is Factorization?

The Factorization is a method that is use to break down a matrix into a product of matrices. The method is used to break down a matrix. The method is used break down a matrix.

What is the Low-rank Factorization?

The Low-rank Factorization is a method of factorization that is used to break down matrices into a product of matrices that have a low rank. The method is used factorize matrices into a product of matrix that have a low rank.

What is the Block-diagonal Matrix?

The Block-diagonal Matrix is a matrix that is composed of blocks that are diagonal. The matrix is composed of blocks that have a diagonal structure. The matrix is composed blocks that have a diagonal strucutre.

What is the Block-wise Orthogonal Transformation?

The Block-wise Orthogonal Transformation is a method that is composed of a block-wise orthogonal transformation. The method is composed of a blockwise orthogonal transformation. The method composed of a blockwise transformation.

What is the Blockwise Orthogonal Finetuning method?

Blockwise Orthogonal Finetuing method is a method that uses a blockwise orthogonal transformation to finitue a large model. The method is a method that finitues a large model. The blockwise orthogonal finetuing method is a blockwise orthogonal transformation that is used to transform a large model.

What are the advantages of the Blockwise Orthogonal Transformation?

The blockwise orthogonal transformation has the advantage of being able to finitue a model with a small number of parameters. The blockwise orthogonal transformation has an advantage of being able to transform a large model with a small number parameters. The blockwise transformation has an advantage of transforming a large model with a smaller number of
