\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "LongRoPE: Extending LLM Context Window Beyond 2 Million Tokens"}

### Can you clarify why YaRN underperformed PI on PG19 in Finding 1?
Question:
In Section 2.2 Finding 1, Table TBL:EXP1 shows that YaRN had worse perplexity than plain Linear PI on PG19 when no fine-tuning was involved. The text says YaRN didn't reach the target context window length.

Since YaRN uses extrapolation for high-frequency dimensions ($\lambda=1$), shouldn't it preserve short-range dependencies better than PI? Why did it fail so badly compared to PI in this specific non-fine-tuned scenario? Was it because YaRN's fixed grouping strategy forced some critical dimensions into extrapolation modes that were too aggressive for PG19 data distribution?
Answer:
The underperformance of YaRN compared to Plain Linear Position Interpolation (PI) on the PG19 dataset in Finding 1 stems primarily from YaRN's rigid, human-defined grouping strategy failing to adapt to the specific non-uniform information entropy inherent in the RoPE dimensions for that particular extension ratio. While your intuition that YaRN's extrapolation on high-frequency dimensions ($\lambda=1$) might theoretically preserve short-range dependencies is sound, the paper argues that the actual failure occurs because this fixed grouping prevents the model from reaching its intended target context window length during non-fine-tuned inference.

According to Section 2.2, specifically under "Finding 1," YaRN categorizes RoPE dimensions into three distinct groups based on frequency and applies a static rule: high-frequency dimensions undergo extrapolation ($\lambda=1$), intermediate ones use NTK-like scaling, and low-frequency ones use linear interpolation (PI). The authors note that this reliance on human-led empirical experiments often results in sub-optimal configurations for new LLMs or specific data distributions like PG19. The core issue identified in the text is that YaRN "didn't reach the target context window length." Practically, this manifests as a sharp spike in perplexity shortly after the start of the sequence (specifically noted as spiking after $7$k in an $8$k context size). This indicates that while the high-frequency dimensions are preserved via extrapolation, the combination of strategies across all dimensions creates a mismatch where the positional information becomes indistinguishable or "crowded" earlier than expected, causing the model to lose coherence before fully utilizing the extended window.

In contrast, Plain Linear PI applies a uniform scaling factor ($\lambda=s$) across all dimensions. Although PI generally suffers from crowding at extreme extension ratios, for moderate extensions without fine-tuning (like moving from $4$k to $8$k or $16$k), its uniform application can sometimes provide a more stable baseline than a poorly tuned hybrid approach. The paper emphasizes that current methods including YaRN do not effectively leverage "two forms of non-uniformities": variations across RoPE dimensions and variations across token positions. By forcing critical dimensions into an extrapolation mode that might be too aggressive or misaligned with the PG19 data distribution, YaRN inadvertently discards necessary positional resolution for certain token ranges. The LongRoPE approach resolves this by employing an evolutionary search to determine unique rescale factors ($\lambda_i$) for every single dimension rather than relying on broad categories. This search discovers that optimal performance requires a nuanced mix of interpolation and extrapolation tailored precisely to each dimension's contribution to information retention, allowing it to maintain low perplexity where YaRN fails due to its coarse-grained grouping strategy. Thus, YaRN's failure is not necessarily due to the concept of extrapolation itself being wrong, but rather its inability to dynamically adjust which specific frequencies require extrapolation versus interpolation based on the actual data characteristics of PG19.