--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT factorizes the standard orthogonal matrix into a product of multiple sparse orthogonal matrices, which significantly reduces the number of trainable parameters. BOFT achieves stronger performance than OFT and its block-diagonal variant with a much smaller number of trainable parameters. To facilitate the research community's use of BOFT, we have open-sourced an efficient PyTorch implementation . We evaluate BOFT on a variety of vision downstream tasks, including classification, detection, segmentation, and instance segmentation. Results show that BOFT outperforms the strong OFT by a considerable margin and is more parameter-efficient. Furthermore, we demonstrate that BOFT is effective for finetuning large language models. BOFT achieves new state-of-the-art results on English and Chinese language modeling benchmarks with only 1.5% and 0.9% of the parameters of PPO, the current state-of-the-art model. Code is at

Results in the paper are quite strong, but the paper is not very well written. The authors should consider rewriting the paper to make it more accessible to a wider audience. In particular, the paper is very dense and hard to read. The authors should consider adding more figures and examples to make the paper more accessible. The paper should also be more clearly organized. For example, the authors should consider moving the description of the BOFT algorithm to the beginning of the paper, rather than the end. This would make the paper easier to read and understand. Overall, the paper presents some very interesting results, but the paper is currently too difficult to read and understand. The authors should consider revising the paper to make it easier to read and understand.

Review 2

The paper proposes a parameter-efficient finetunig method for adapting large pretrained models to downstream task. The key idea is to factorize the orthogonal matrix used in OFT into a product of multiple orthogonal matrices. The paper provides a comprehensive evaluation on a variety of vision and language tasks. The results show that BOFT is more parameter-efficient than OFT and its variants. BOFT also achieves better performance than OFT. The paper is well-written and easy to follow. The experiments are carefully conducted and the results are convincing. The paper makes a significant contribution to the finetuning community. I have only a few minor comments as follows: 1. Line 128: The authors claim that BOFT is more efficient than OFT. However, the number of trainable parameters in BOFT is still larger than that in LoRA. It will be interesting to compare BOFT with LoRA. 2. Line 129: The authors claim that the performance of BOFT is better than that of OFT. However, it is not clear whether the improvement is statistically significant. It will be interesting if the authors can conduct a statistical test to verify the improvement. 3. Line 131: The authors claim that block-diagonal OFT is less parameter-efficient than BOFT. However, the number or trainable parameters in BOFT-16 is larger than that in BD-OFT-16. It will be interesting how the performance of BOFT-16 compares to that of BD-OFT-16.

Review 3

Summary: This paper proposes a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method called BOFT. BOFT factorizes a standard orthogonal matrix into a multiplication of multiple sparse orthogonal matrices. BOFT is more parameter efficient than OFT and its variant. BOFT also achieves stronger performance than OFTs. Code is open sourced. Strengths: 1. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finituning method. 2. BOFT is more efficient and effective than OFT and its blocks-diagonal variant. 3. BOFT is easy to implement. 4. BOFT is well implemented and open sourced. Weaknesses: 1. The paper is not well written. 2. The paper is very dense and difficult to read. 3. The paper is not clearly organized. 4. The paper is very long. 5. The paper is not accessible to a wider audience, especially to those who are not familiar with orthogonal finetuning. 6. The paper is not self-contained. 7. The paper does not provide enough details. 8. The paper does not have enough experiments. 9. The paper does not consider other parameter-efficient finetuning methods. 10. The paper does not discuss the generalization ability of BOFT. 11. The paper does not compare BOFT with LoRAs. 12. The paper does not conduct a comprehensive study on the impact of hyperparameters. 13. The paper does not study the impact of the number of factors. 14. The paper does not analyze the sparsity pattern of the orthogonal matrices. 15. The paper does not report the training time. 16. The paper does not evaluate BOFT on language modeling tasks. 17. The paper does not perform a statistical test to verify whether the
