--- PROMPT ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Let me tell you everything about DPO.

--- GENERATION ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Let me tell you everything about DPO. 

\section{Introduction}

Large-scale unsupervised language model (LM) training has led to impressive performance on downstream tasks, but achieving precise control of their behaviors is challenging due to the completely unsophisticated nature of their training. 
For example, the GPT-3 model, which was trained on 175 billion parameters, is able to generate coherent text on a wide range of topics, but it is difficult to control its output on any given prompt, and it is not clear how to fine-tune it to produce high-quality responses to specific prompts.
This lack of control is especially problematic when the goal is to use the LM to generate responses to queries from a user, as the user may not be able to provide explicit feedback on the quality of the generated responses.
One approach to gain control is to collect human preferences for the generated responses, and then fine-tune the LM to maximize these preferences.
This is known as reinforcement learning from human feedback, or RLHF, and it has been used to train LMs to generate responses to queries, summarize text, and perform single-turn dialogue.
However, RLHF is challenging to implement, and the resulting fine-tuned LMs are often unstable, requiring frequent retraining and tuning of hyperparameters.
In this paper, we propose a new method for fine-tuning LMs that does not require sampling from the LM during training, and instead uses a simple classification loss to optimize the reward model that reflects the preferences of the human annotators.
This method, which we call Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), is based on the observation that the reward model can be represented as a function of the LM's parameters, and that the optimal reward model can be found by solving a constrained optimization problem.
We show that the optimal reward model is a linear function of the LM's parameter vector, and that the optimal policy is the one that maximizes this reward function.
We then show that the optimal policy can be computed in closed form, and that the resulting policy can be used to fine-tune the LM using a simple classification loss.
We evaluate DPO on several downstream tasks, including generating responses to queries, summarizing text, and performing single-turn dialogue, and show that it is both stable and performant, outperforming existing methods on all tasks.

\section{Related Work}

Large-scale unsupervized language models (LMs), such as GPT-3, have achieved impressive performance on a wide range of downstream tasks, including summarization, question answering, and single-turn dialogue.
However obtaining precise control of the behavior of these models is difficult, as they are trained on large unlabeled corpora and do not have explicit human supervision.
One approach to gain some control is to collect human feedback on the quality of generated responses, and then use reinforcement learning to fine-tune the model to maximize the human preferences.
This is known in the literature as reinforcement learning from human preference data (RLHF), and has been used to train models to generate responses to queries and perform single-turn dialogue, among other tasks.
However, RLHF has several challenges, including the need to collect large amounts of human preference data, the need to train multiple models to capture different aspects of the human preferences, and the need to tune hyperparameters during training.
In this paper, our goal is to develop a method for fine-tuning an unsupervised LM that does not require sampling or hyperparameter tuning, and that can be used to generate responses to queries or perform single-turn dialogue.

\section{Direct Preference Optimization}

We begin by defining the reward model that reflects human preferences for the generated text.
The reward model is a function of the LM parameters, and the goal is to find the parameters that maximize the reward.
We assume that the reward model is a linear combination of the LM's parameters and a set of features that capture the human preferences.
The features are typically learned from human annotations, and the linear combination is learned by maximizing the log-likelihood of the human preferences.
The resulting reward model is a function $R(\theta)$ of the LM's parameters $\theta$, and the optimal policy is the policy that maximizes $R(\theta)$.
We can then use the optimal policy to fine-tune the unsuperiour LM using a simple classification objective, which is the log-probability of the optimal policy given the LM's parameters.
This objective is equivalent to maximizing the log-likelihood under the optimal policy, and can be computed efficiently using the chain rule.
The resulting fine-tuned model is a policy that maximizes the reward model, and can be used to generate text or perform single-turn dialogue.
We refer to this method as Direct Preference Optimization (D PO).

\section{Optimal Policy and Reward Model}

We begin by defining a reward model that reflects human preference for the generated text.
We assume that the human preferences are represented by a set of features $F$, and that the reward model is linear in the LM's parameters $\mathbf{w}$ and the features $F$.
The reward model is defined as $
