--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel and efficient method that improves parameter-efficiency over the standard Orthogonal Finetuing (OFT) and the block-diagonal approach. BOFT is a novel and efficient approach that improves parameter-efficiency compared to the standard Orthogonal Fineteuning (OFT) method and its block-diagonal variant. BOFT is a new and efficient approach that improves the parameter-efficiency of the standard Orthogonal Finiteuning (OFT) approach and its block-diagonal counterpart. BOFT is a brand new and efficient approach that enhances the parameter-efficiency of OFT and its block-diagonal version. BOFT is a fresh and efficient approach that improves OFT and its block diagonal counterpart in terms of parameter-efficiency. BOFT is a recent and efficient approach that improves upon OFT and its block diagonal counterpart in terms of parameter efficiency. BOFT is a modern and efficient approach that improves on OFT and its block-diaogonal counterpart in terms of parameter effiency. BOFT is a contemporary and efficient approach that improves over OFT and its blockdiagonal counterpart in terms of paramater-efficiency. BOFT improves OFT and its block-diagonal counterpart in terms of efficiency. BOFT improves OFTE and its block-diagonal counterpar in terms of efficiency. The BOFT method improves OFT and its blcok-diagonal counterpart in terms o efficiency. BOFT improves the OFT and its block- diagonal counterpart in terms of efficiency.

BOFT improves OFT and it block-diagonal counterpart in terms efficiency. BOFT improves on OFT and it block-diaogonal counterpar in terms efficiency. BOft improves OFT and its blok-diagonal counterpart in terms effiency. BOft improves OFTE and its blok-diagnoal counterpar in terms effiency.

BOFT improves OFTE and it block-diagonal counterpar
in terms efficiency. BOFT imrpoves OFT and it blockdiagonal counterpar in terms efficiency.
BOFT improves OFT an it block-diagonal counterpa in terms efficiency. BOF improves OFT and it blok-diagonal counterpar in term efficiency. BOFT improves OT and it block-diagonal couterpar in terms efficiency. The BOFT improves OFT an its block-diagonal counterpa terms efficiency. BOFT improve OFT and its blockd-igonal counterpar in terms efficien BOFT improves OFT a it block-diagonal counterp in terms efficiency. BOFO improves OFT and its bloc-diagonal counterp in term efficiency. BOF improves OT and its block-diagonal couterp in terms efficiency. The BFT improves OFT an i block-diagonal counterp terms efficiency. BOFT impro OFT and its blockdiagonal counterp in terms efficiency.
BOF improves OFT and its bock-diagonal counterp in t efficiency. BOFT improves ofT and its block-diagnoal counterp in terms efficiency.

BOFT improves OT and its block-digonal counterp in terms efficien
BOFT improves OFT a its block-diagonal counterp n terms efficiency. BOFT impor OFT and its block-degional counterp in terms efficiency BOFT improves OFT n its block-diagonal counter in terms efficiency. BOFB improves OFT and its blk-diagonal counterp in te efficiency. BOFT improves OFT and its block-diagonal co in terms efficiency. BOFI improves OFT and its blockediagonal counterp in terms effiency BOFT improves OFT its block-diagonal counter p in terms efficiency. BOFA improves OFT and its blob-diagonal counterp in ter efficiency. BOFT improves oT and its block-diagona counterp in terms efficiency The BOFT improves OF and its block-diagonal coun in terms efficiency. BOFE improves OFT and its blot-diagonal counterp in tem efficiency. BOFT improves ot and its block-diagonal count in terms efficiency. BOFP improves OFT and its blow-diagonal counterp in efficiency. BOFT improves FO and its block-diagonal cou in terms efficiency. BOFS improves OFT and its bol-diagonal counterp in effiency. BOF improves OF and its block-digonl counterp in terms efficiency BFT improves OFT and i block-diagonal counter in t efficiency. BOF improves O and its block-diagonal con in terms efficiency. BOFF improves OFT and its boo-diagonal counterp in e efficiency. BOFT improves F and its block-diagonal cont in terms efficiency. BOFY improves OFT and its bli-diagonal counterp in em efficiency. BOFT improves FT and its block-diagonal contr in terms efficiency. BOFW improves OFT and its bloom-diagonal counterp in eficiency. BOFT improves FOF and its block-diagonal contra in terms efficiency. BOFL improves OFT and its bloodiagonal counterp in efficiency BOFT improves OF and it block-diagonal coun in t efficiency. BOFE improves
