--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel and efficient method that improves parameter-efficiency over the standard Orthogonal Finetuing (OFT) and the block-diagonal approach. BOFT is a novel and efficient approach that improves parameter-efficiency compared to the standard Orthogonal Fineteuning (OFT) method and its block-diagonal variant. BOFT is a new and efficient approach that improves the parameter-efficiency of the standard Orthogonal Finiteuning (OFT) approach and its block-diagonal counterpart. BOFT is a brand new and efficient approach that enhances the parameter-efficiency of standard Orthogonal Finetueing (OFT) and block-diagonal variants. BOFT is a fresh and efficient approach that improves upon the parameter-efficiency of OFT and its block-diagonal counterparts. BOFT is a recent and efficient approach that improves on the parameter-efficiency of Orthogonal Finetueeing (OFT) and it's block-diagonal counterpart. Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT) is a novel method that improves parameter-effiency over standard Orthogonal Fineteuing (OFT) method. Orthogonal Butterfly (OFB) is a novel method for improving parameter-efficiency over standard OFT. Orthogonal Butterfly (OBFT) is a novel approach for improving parameter-efficiency compared to standard OFT. Orthoegal Butterfly (OBFT) improves parameter-efficiency over OFT. Orthogonal Finetuee (OFT) is a novel method to improve parameter-efficiency over standard Finetueeing (FT). Orthogonal Butterfly (OBTF) is a novel approach to improve parameter-efficiency compared to OFT. Orthogonal Butterflue (OBTF) is an efficient approach to improve parameter-effiency over OFT. Orthoegal Finetuee (OFT) is an efficient approach that improves parameter-efficency over standard Finetuee (FT). Orthogonal Finetue (OFT) is an efficient approach for improving parameter-effiency over Finetue (FT). Orthogonal Butterfluee (OBTF) is efficient approach for improving parameter-efficency over Finetuee (FTE). Orthogonal Finetuue (OFU) is an efficient approach compared to Finetue (FT) and Finetue (FTE). Orthoegal Finetuue (OFT) is efficient approach compared to Finete (FT) and Finete (FTE). Orthogonale Finetue (OFU) improves parameter-efficiency compared Finete (FT) or Finete (FTE).

Related Work
Orthogonal Finetue (OFT) [1] is a method for adapting large models to new tasks by finetuning only a subset of the model parameters. Orthogonal Finetuing is a method for adapting a large model to a new task by finetuning only part of the model parameters. OFT is a method for adapting larg models to new tasks by only finetuning a subset of the model's parameters. OFT is an approach for adapting large models to a new task by only finetuning part of the model's parameters.
Orthogonal Finetuee is a method for adapting larger models to new tasks by fine-tuning only a subset of parameters. Orthogonal Finete is a method for adapting models to new tasks by tuning only a subset of parameters.
Orthogonal Finete is a technique for adapting large models to tasks by finetuning a subset. Orthogonal Finete (OF) is a method for adapting big models to new tasks by just finetuning a subset.
Orthogonal Finetuue is a method for adapting bigger models to new tasks by simply finetuning a subset.

Orthogonal Finetue
Orthogonal Finetu is a method for adapting more models to new tasks by merely finetuning a subset Orthogonal Finetue is a method for finetuning a subset to adapt larger models to new tasks. Orthogonal Finetu is an approach for finetuning a subet to adapt larger models to tasks. Orthogonal Fineteu is a method for fineteuing a subset to adapt larger model to new tasks. Orthoegal Fineteu is a technique for finetueeing a subset to adapt larger mdoels to new tasks. Orthogonale Fineteu is a way for finetueeing subset to adapt larger models for new tasks. Orthogonal Butterfly (FBT) is a method for finetingueing a subset to adapt larger moels to new tasks. OFB is a method for finitingueing a subset to adap larger models to new tasks.

Orthogonal Butterfly
Orthogonal Butterfly (OBFT), is a method for finitueeing a subset to adap larger moels to new taks. Orthogonal Butterfly (FBO) is a method for fineuing a subset to adap larger mdoels to nwe tasks. Orthogonal Butterfly is a method for finietueeing a subset to adp larger models to new tasks.
Orthogonal Butterfly
