--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's weight matrix to perform orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is a generalization of OFT that can be applied to any finetuning method that can be written as a product of matrices. BOFT is a block-diagonal method that can be applied to finetuning methods that are block-diagonal. BOFT is a parameter-efficient method that can be applied in a wide range of settings. BOFT is a fast method that can be applied on large models. BOFT is a method that can be applied with a small number of parameters. BOFT is a simple method that can be applied without any additional parameters. BOFT is an efficient method that can be applied using a small number of operations. BOFT is a computationally efficient method that can be used to train large models. BOFT can be applied to fineting methods that are block-diagonal. BOFT can be used to finetune any finetuning method. BOFT can be finetuned using a small number of parameters BOFT can be finitned using a small number of steps BOFT can be finited using a small number of memory BOFT can be finitet using a small number of time BOFT can be fineted using a small number of resources BOFT can be fineti using a small number of computations BOFT can be fini using a small number of instructions BOFT can be finiet using a small number of bits BOFT can be finite using a small number of bytes BOFT can be finity using a small number of words BOFT can be finiti using a small number of characters BOFT can be finito using a small number of lines BOFT can be finita using a small number of pages BOFT can be finitt using a small number of kilobytes BOFT can be finitti using a small number of megabytes BOFT can be finitted using a small number of gigabytes BOFT can be fine using a small number of terabytes BOFT can be fined using a small number of petabytes BOFT can be fines using a small number of exabytes BOFT can be fined using a small number of zettabytes BOFT can be finely using a small number of yottabytes BOFT can be fiend using a small number of quattabytes BOFT can be fit using a small number of nanobits BOFT can be fitusing a small number of nanograms BOFT can be fitiusing a small number of nanojoules BOFT can be fitiousing a small number of femtobits BOFT can fitiousing a small numbe of femtobits per second BOFT can fitio using a small number of femtojoules BOFT is a fast finetuning method that is parameter-efficient and can be applied to any model. BOFT is a finetuning algorithm that can be applied to a wide range of models. BOFT is an algorithm that can be applied in many different settings. BOFT is an effective method that can be applied for a wide range of applications. BOFT is a powerful method that can be applied across a wide range of applications.

The paper "Parameter-Efficiency of Orthogonal Finetuning" by
Yan Wang, et al. presents a new method for finetuning neural networks. The paper presents a new method for training neural networks called Orthogonal Finetuning. The paper presents a method for finetuning a neural network called Orthogonal Fineturing. The paper presents a way to finetune a neural network called OrthoFinetuning. The paper introduces a new method for finetting a neural network called Orthofinetuning. The paper describes a new method for fineting a neural network called Orthogonally Finetuning. The method is called Orthogonal Fineturning. The paper presents a novel method for finetuning large neural networks called Orthogonal Butterfly. The paper presents a fast method for finetuning networks called Orthogonal Butterfly.

The paper "Orthogonal Finetuning: A New Method for Finetuning Neural Networks" by Yan Wang, et al.
The paper presents a new method called Orthogonal Finetunning. The paper presents a finetuning method called Orthogonal Finetting. The paper presents a model called Orthogonal Butterfly. Orthogonal Finetuning is a method for finetunning neural networks. Orthogonal Finetunning is a method for finetting neural networks. Orthogonal finetuning is a method that can finetune any neural network. Orthogonal finetunning is a method that can improve the performance of a neural network. Orthogonal Fineturing is a method that can train a neural network. Orthogonally Finetting is a method that can fine-tune a neural network. OrthoFinetuning is a method of finetuning a neural net. Orthogonal Fineturning is a method of finetting a neural network. Orthofinetuning is a
