\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "LongRoPE: Extending LLM Context Window Beyond 2 Million Tokens"}

### Why does the paper claim YaRN underperforms PI and NTK for non-fine-tuned 8k extensions, and is this due to YaRN failing to reach the target length?
Question:
In Section 3.2 (Study on Non-uniform Positional Interpolation), under Finding 1, the authors state that "YaRN underperforms than PI and NTK on PG19, as it doesn't reach the target context window length for non-fine-tuned LLM... For example, YaRN's perplexity spikes after 7k in an 8k context size." 

However, earlier in Section 1 (Introduction), it mentions that YaRN can extend context windows in non-fine-tuning scenarios. If YaRN is failing to simply *reach* the length due to extrapolation issues at high frequencies, why doesn't the method just use a smaller extension ratio where it succeeds? Furthermore, if the other methods (PI and NTK) don't have this specific failure mode reported for small extensions like 8k, why do they suddenly perform better than YaRN specifically in the non-fine-tuned setting? Is this because their unified rescaling covers all dimensions effectively where YaRN's grouping strategy leaves high-frequency dimensions unaltered ($\\lambda=1$), causing ambiguity for tokens that drift near the boundary of the pre-trained range?
Answer:
The discrepancy you are experiencing arises from a specific nuance in Section 3.2 regarding the evaluation of YaRN during the search process versus its overall capability when properly configured, particularly for non-fine-tuned extensions.

In the context of LongRoPE's findings, the claim that YaRN underperforms PI and NTK for non-fine-tuned 8k extensions is not because YaRN is fundamentally incapable of reaching 8k, but rather because the specific YaRN configuration used in the paper's initial experiments (likely based on standard hyperparameters or empirical guessing) failed to find optimal rescale factors that prevent information loss at higher frequencies. The paper notes a perplexity spike after 7k in an 8k context size, which indicates that while the model technically *processes* tokens up to 8k, the positional encoding becomes so distorted—specifically due to how YaRN groups dimensions and leaves high-frequency dimensions extrapolated ($\lambda=1$) that it effectively "forgets" or confuses token positions near the boundary. This failure to *maintain* low perplexity across the entire sequence functionally limits its usable length, even if it technically accepts the input.

Your intuition about reducing the extension ratio is a valid strategy known as diminishing returns or operating within a successful regime; however, the paper's specific phrasing highlights a comparative performance issue: even with a target of 8k, standard YaRN configurations struggle to match the robustness of PI and NTK without fine-tuning. This is directly tied to your second insight regarding YaRN's grouping strategy. The paper argues that positional embedding exhibits complex non-uniformities where lower dimensions (low frequency) carry more critical long-range information and thus require interpolation, while higher dimensions (high frequency) are more localized. YaRN attempts to address this by grouping these dimensions: interpolating low frequencies and extrapolating high ones. However, LongRoPE's evolutionary search discovered that this fixed grouping is sub-optimal. Specifically, as you noted, leaving high-frequency dimensions unaltered ($\lambda=1$) causes ambiguity when tokens drift near the boundary because those high-frequency components change too rapidly for extrapolation to handle well without fine-tuning convergence. PI and NTK perform better in this non-fine-tuned setting precisely because their unified rescaling schemes (linear scaling for PI or dimension-wise power scaling for NTK) apply a consistent interpolation pressure across all dimensions. While PI suffers from crowding at very high extensions and NTK might not be optimal for extremely long sequences without fine-tuning, they both avoid YaRN's specific pitfall of un-managed high-frequency extrapolation at moderate extension ratios like $4\times$ or $6452\times$, allowing them to maintain stable perplexity up to 8k without needing the iterative optimization LongRoPE employs. Essentially, PI and NTK provide a smoother, albeit potentially sub-optimal globally compared to LongRoPE's search, trajectory for RoPE dimensions in non-fine-tuning scenarios compared to YaRN's static grouping which breaks down quickly as sequence length increases beyond a few thousand tokens.