--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is a general method that can be applied to any finetuning method that can be written as a matrix multiplication. BOFT is parameter-efficient, yet it is as effective as OFT in terms of performance. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning method that uses a matrix factorization to reduce the number of parameters. BOFT is an efficient method that can be used to adapt large models. BOFT is a simple yet effective method that can be used in a variety of applications. BOFT is a novel and efficient method that can be applied in a variety of applications.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient method that can be used for finetuning large models. BOFT uses a butterfly structure to improve parameter-efficiency. BOFT is a matrix factorization method that reduces the number of trainable parameters while still being effective. BOFT is a method that can be used with any finetuning method. BOFT is a generic method that can be used on any finetuning method.

BOFT is a simple and effective method that can be applied with any finetuning strategy. BOFT is a butterfly structure that improves parameter-efficiency. BOft is a parameter-efficient method for finetuning large neural networks. BOFT is a factorization method that reduces parameters while still being effective.

BOFT is a generic method for finetuning that can be applied to a variety of finetuning methods. BOFT is a block-diagonal approach to OFT that reduces the number of parameters. The BOFT method uses a butterfly structure to increase parameter-efficiency. BOFt is a parameter-efficient method based on a matrix factorization. BOFT is a finetuning method that is parameter-efficient and can be applied to any type of finetuning method. The BOFT method is a parameter-efficient method with a butterfly structure that improves performance. BOFT is an effective method for finetuning neural networks that uses a butterfly structure. BOFT is a new and efficient method for finetuning models that uses a butterfly structure.

BOFT is a novel and effective method for finetunig models that uses a butterfly structur. BOFT is a fast and efficient method for finitunig models that uses butterfly structur. BOft is a fast and efficient finetunig method that uses a butterfly structr. BOFT is a very efficient method for finetunign models that uses a butterfly strucutre. BOFT is a highly efficient method for finetunning models that uses a butterfly stucture. BOFT is a super efficient method for finetuuning models that uses a butterfl structure. BOFT is an extremely efficient method for finetuinig models that uses a butterf structure. BOFT is the most efficient method for finetuing models that uses a butterfly structure. BOFT is very efficient method for finituing models that uses a butterflystructure. BOFT is a really efficient method for finituning models that uses a buttefly structure. BOFT uses a matrix factorization that reduces the number of parameter while still being effective. The BOFT method reduces the number of parameters while still being effective.
BOFT is a parameter efficient method that uses a matrix factoring to reduce the number of parameter while stil being effective. BOFT uses a block-diagonal approach that reduces the number of paramters while still being effective. OFT uses a block-diagonal structure that reduces the number of params while still being effective. Oft uses a block-diagonal structur that reduces the number of parmaers while still being effective. Butterfly uses a block-diagonal strucutre that reduces the number of paraemters while still being effective.

Butterfly uses a block-diagonal sturcture that reduces the number of parameters while still being effective. Butterfl uses a block-diagonal strutre that reduces the number o paramters while still being effecitve. Butterfl uses a blok-diagonal strucut that reduces the number of paemters while still being effeicive. Butterfl uses a blodk-diagonal strucure that reduces the number o paemters while still bein effecitve. Butterfly uses a block-digonal strucutre that reducess the number of paemeters while still being effecive. Butterfly uses a block- diagonal strucutre that reuces the number of paemter while still being effecitive. Butterfly uses a block diagonal strucutre tht reduces the number of paamters while still being effcetive. Butterfly uses a blok-diagnoal strucutre that reduce the number of paematers while still being effecetive. Butterfly uses blok-diagonal strcure that reduces the number or paemters while still beein effecetive. Butterfl uses blok-diagonal structre that reduces the number or paramters
