--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorized weight matrix to perform finetuning. BOFT is a generalization of OFT that can be applied to any finetuning method that can be written as a product of two matrices. In this paper, we present a new BOFT variant called BOFT-2, which is a block-diagonal version of BOFT. We also introduce a new parameter-efficient finetuning method called BOFT-2-PEFT, which is a block-wise version of BOFT-2. We evaluate BOFT-2- PEFT on the ImageNet-1K dataset and show that it achieves state-of-the-art performance with only 1.5 times more parameters than OFT. We also evaluate BOFT-2 on the CIFAR-10 dataset and show that it outperforms OFT by 0.5% on average. Finally, we conduct a comprehensive ablation study to show that BOFT-2-2PEFT is the best finetuning method in terms of both parameter efficiency and performance.

Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) have become the backbone of modern natural language processing (NLP). However, LLMs are extremely sensitive to the training data and the learning rate. To address this problem, many methods have been proposed to finetune LLMs. Among them, Orthogonal Finetuning is one of the most popular methods. It is a simple and effective method that uses an orthogonal matrix to perform finetune. The key idea is to use an orthogonal matrix to rotate the input data so that the model can learn from the new data without changing the weights. This method has been widely used in practice and has achieved great success.
However, there are some limitations of Orthogonal Finetuning. First, the orthogonal matrix needs to be computed at every training step, which is time-consuming. Second, the orthogonal matrix needs a large number of parameters, which may cause memory issues. Third, the orthogonal matrix needs an initialization, which is also time-consuming. These limitations make the finetuning process inefficient.
To address these limitations, we propose a new finetuning method called Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Butterflies (PEFT). The core idea of PEFT is to use a factorized weight matrix instead of an orthogonal matrix. A factorized weight matrix can be written as a block-diagonal matrix, which can be much more efficient than an orthogonal matrix. In addition, we can use a block-diagonal matrix to perform finetuned training, which is much more efficient than using an orthogonal matrix. We also propose a new block-wise finetuning method called Blockwise Orthogonal Butterflies (BOFT-2). BOFT-2 is a block-diagonal variant of BOFT. We evaluate BOFT and BOFT-2 on several datasets and show that they achieve better performance than OFT and OFT-2, while using only 1.5× more parameters. We also conduct a comprehensive ablation analysis to show that BOFT and BOFT2 are the best finetuning methods in terms of both parameter-efficiency and performance.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the basic concepts of finetuning and Orthogonal Finetuning, and we also introduce the block-diagonal finetuning method. In Section 3, we introduce the BOFT-2 and BOFT-2-1PEFT methods. In Section 4, we evaluate the BOFT-2-3PEFT method and show that it is the best finetuned method in terms of both performance and parameter-efficiency. In Section 5, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of the BOFT-2 family of methods. In Section 6, we conclude the paper and discuss future work.

Background and Related Work
In this section, we introduce the basic concept of finetuning and the Orthogonal Finetuning method. We also introduce the block-diagonalmethod and the block-wise finetuning methods.

Finetuning
Finetuning is a widely used method to improve the performance of LLMs. It is a simple method that uses a pre-trained model as the base model and finetunes it with a small dataset. There are two main types of finetuning: finetuning with a single batch and finetuning with multiple batches. The former is the most common type of finetuning. In this method, the base model is finetuned with a single batch of data. The latter is the more powerful method. In this method, multiple batches of data are used to finetune the base model. The number of batches is usually set to be 1 or 2. The former is more commonly used because it is easier to implement and requires less memory. However, the latter is more powerful because it can produce better results. For example, the finetuning with 2 batches is often used to finetune LMs on ImageNet.

Orthogonal Finetuning

