--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses the orthogonal matrix to transform the input data and the weight matrix. BOFT has two major advantages: 1) it can reduce the number of trainable parameters by half, and 2) it can improve the generalization performance of finetuned models. In this paper, we propose a new finetuning method, Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Butterfly (PE-BOFT), to further improve the parameter efficiency of BOFT. We introduce a factorization of the weight matrix in BOFT, and then we propose a parameter-efficient finetuning method based on this factorization. The key idea is to use a small orthogonal matrix to rotate the weight matrix, so that the original weight matrix can be transformed into a product of two matrices, one of which is a block-diagonal matrix with a smaller number of parameters than the original weight matrix. We call this block-diagonal matrix the "parameter-efficient block" matrix. The other matrix is a full orthogonal matrix. The whole process is called "parameter-efficient orthogonal butterfly finetuning" (PE-BOFT). We also provide a theoretical analysis to show that the proposed method can achieve better parameter-efficiency than the original BOFT. We conduct experiments on ImageNet-1K and CIFAR-10/100 datasets. The results show that our PE-BOFT method can significantly improve the parameter efficiency of the BOFT method. In particular, our PE-BOFT can achieve the same performance as the OFT method while using only 1/3 of the parameters of the BOFT method.

Introduction
Finetuning (or fine-tuning) is a widely used method to improve the performance of pretrained models. It is particularly effective for large pretrained models, such as Google's BERT [1] and OpenAI's GPT-3 [2]. However, finetuning models is not an easy task. There are two main reasons. First, the model weights are very sensitive to the finetuning data. Second, the finetuning process needs to be performed with high precision. These two reasons make the finetuning process time-consuming and laborious.
To address these issues, many methods have been proposed to improve the parameter-efficiency of finetuning. For example, the block-diagonal finetuning method [3] reduces the number of trainable parameters in the weight matrix by adding a block-diagonal matrix to the weight matrix. The diagonal of the block-diagonal matrix is initialized to a certain value, and the off-diagonal elements are initialized to zero. This method can reduce the number of parameters by 1/2. Another method is to use a small random orthogonal matrix to transform the weight matrix [4]. The orthogonal matrix can reduce the number of weights by 1/4. These methods can effectively reduce the number of trainable weights, but they cannot reduce the number of trainable neurons. Therefore, the parameter-efficiency of these methods is limited.
In this paper, we propose Parameter-Efficient Orthagonal Butterfly Finetuning (PE-BOFT) to further improve the parameter-efficiency. Our method is based on the orthogonal matrix. We first propose a factorization of the original weight matrix in BOFT. We find that the original weight matrix in the BOFT method can be transformed into a block-diagonal matrix by using a small orthogonal matrix. We call this matrix the "parameter-efficient matrix". The block-diagonal matrix is a product of two matrices. One matrix is a full orthogonal transformation, and the other matrix is a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix. The whole transformation is called "parameter-efficient orthogonal butterfly finetuning" or "PE-BOFT". We also provide a theoretical proof to show that the proposed finetuning method can achieve better parameter efficiency than the original BOFT method. We conduct experiments on the ImageNet-1K dataset and the CIFAR-10/20 dataset. The results show that the proposed method achieves better parameter-efficiency than BOFT and OFT. In particular, our method can achieve the same performance of the OFT method while only using 1/3 of parameters of the BOFT methods.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the related work. In Section 3, we describe the BOFT method. We introduce the orthogonal matrix and the block-diagonal matrix in detail in Section 4. In Section 5, we propose the Parameter-Efficient Orthographic Butterfly Finetuning (P-BOFT) method. We provide a theoretical analysis in Section 6. In Section 7, we conduct experiments and analyze the results. Finally, we draw our conclusions in Section 8.

Related Work
There are two main approaches to finetuning large models. One is to use a small model to finetune a large model. The other is to finetune the large model directly. The first approach is to use a small language model to finetune the pretrained large language model. The second approach is to finetune a pretrained
