--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is commonly used in computer networks to reduce the number of required multiplications. The butterfly structure is a method for reducing the number of multiplications required to compute the Hadamard product of two matrices. The Hadamard product of matrices A and B is denoted by A B and is defined as the matrix whose (i, j) entry is the product of the ith entry of A and the jth entry of B. The butterfly structure is used in computer networks to decrease the number of multiplications needed to compute the HadamARD product of two matrices. In the butterfly structure, the Hadamard product is computed by performing a series of multiplications and additions. The butterfly structure is composed of a series of layers, each of which is composed of a number of nodes. Each node in a layer is connected to a number of nodes in the next layer. The connections between the nodes in different layers are arranged in a specific pattern, which is known as the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is named after its resemblance to the wings of a butterfly. The butterfly structure is commonly used in computer networking to reduce the number of multiplications that are required to compute the Hadmard product of two matrices.

The butterfly structure is a method that is used to reduce the number of multiplication operations that are required to compute a Hadamard product of a pair of matrices. The Hadamrd product of two matrices is a matrix that is formed by taking the element-wise product of the two matrices. The butterfly structure is made up of a series of layers that are connected to each other in a specific pattern. Each layer is composed of a number nodes, and each node is connected to a number nodes in the next layer.

The butterfly structure is used to reduce the amount of computation that is required to compute the Hadarmrd product of two matrices. This is done by performing a series of additions and multiplications. The butterfly strucure is made up of a number of layers, and each layer is connected to a specific number of layers in the next level. The connections between the layers are arranged in a pattern that is known as the butterfly pattern.

The butterfly structure is commonly used to reduce the number or multiplications that are required in order to compute the Hadamrd product of a pair of matricies. The butterfly structure is also used to reduce the amount or computation that is required to perform a number of other operations. The butterfly structure is often used in computer networks to perform a number of different operations, including the computation of the Hadamrd product.

The butterfly structure is made up a number of layers, each of whicch is connected to a specific numbe of layers in the next layer. Each layer is connected to a numbe of layers in th next layer in a specific pattern. The pattern that is used to connect the layers is known as the butterfly patern.

The butterfly structure is often used to reduce the number o multiplications that are required for the computation of the Hadmard product. The butterfly structure is als used to reduce the amount o computation that is required for a number of other operations.

The butterfly structure is composed of layers, each of wich is connected to a specific numb of layers in the next leyer. Each layer is connected in a specific pattern to a number of layers in the nex layer. The pattern that is use to connect the layers is know as the butterfly pattern.

In the butterfly structure, the connections between the layers are made in a specific pattern, whic is known as the butterfly patten. The butterfly structure is comosed of a number of layers. Each layer is connected t a specific number of layers. The connections between the lers are made in a specific patern.

The butterfly strucutre is made up of a numbe of layers, each of wihch is connected to a specifc number of layers in the nest layer. The connections between th layers are made in a specifc pattern, which is known a the butterfly pattern.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" presents a new and efficient method for adapting larg models, called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft). BOft improves parameter-efficiency over standar OFT and its block-diagonal approch. The paper "Parameter-eficient Orthogonal Finetuing via Factorization" presents an efficient method for adapting large modles, called Orthogonal Butterfly. BOft improves parameter-efficieny over standard OFT and its block-diaogonal approach.

The paper "Parameter-efcient Orthogonal Finetuing vvia Factorization" presents an effiecient method for adapting large models. The method is called Orthogonal Butterfly. The method is based on the butterfly strucutre, which is commonly used to reduce th number of multiplications required for the computation of th Hadamrd product of matrices. The butterfly structure consists of a numbe of layer, each of whic is connected to a specific nuumber of
