--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is commonly used in computer networks to reduce the number of required multiplications. The butterfly structure is a method for reducing the number of multiplications required to compute the Hadamard product of two matrices. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been used in computer networks to decrease the number of required multiplicative operations. BOFT is a method for adapting large models that is both parameter-efficient and effective. The butterfly structure is used to construct a sparse orthogonal matrix, which is then used to update the weights of the model. The butterfly structure is constructed by performing a series of multiplications and additions. The authors propose a method for constructing the butterfly structure that is more efficient in terms of the number of multiplications and additions required. The butterfly structure is built by performing a series of additions and multiplications. The authors propose a technique for constructing the butterfly structure with a lower number of multiplications and a higher number of additions. The butterfly structure is created by performing a series of addition and multiplication operations. The authors propose a strategy for constructing the butterfly structure using fewer multiplications and more additions. The butterfly structure can be constructed using a lower number of multiplicative operations and a higher number of additive operations. The butterfly structure is made up of a large number of multiplications and few additions. The authors propose an approach for constructing the butterfly structure while minimizing the number of multiplications. The butterfly matrix is constructed by performing a large number of multiplicative operations. The butterfly matrix is created by performing a large number. The butterfly matrix is made up of a huge number of multiplicative operations, and the authors propose a method for creating it that reduces the number of multiplicative operations required. The butterfly matrix is built by performing a large number (typically on the order of O(n log n)) of multiplicative operations. In order to reduce the number of multiplicative computations, the authors propose a method that constructs the butterfly matrix using a smaller number of multiplicative operations (typically on the order O(n)). The butterfly matrix is constructed using a large number of multiplication operations. The authors propose an algorithm for constructing the butterfly matrix that reduces the number of multiplication operations required. The butterfly structure can also be constructed using a smaller number of multiplication operations. The butterfly matrix can be constructed using a large number (typically O(n log n)) multiplicative operations. The authors propose methods for constructing the butterfly matrix using a reduced number of multiplicative operations.

The butterfly structure is constructed by multiplying a small number of matrices together. The authors propose methods that reduce the number of multiplications needed to construct the butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrix is typically constructed using a large number O(n log n) of multiplicative operations. BOFO

The butterfly matrix is constructed by multiplying a large number of matrices together. BOFT is a technique for adapting large models that has a high parameter efficiency. The butterfly structure is utilized to construct a sparse orthogonal transformation matrix, which is then utilized to update the model's weights. The butterfly structure is formed by performing a series of multiplication and addition operations. The butterfly structure can likewise be constructed using a smaller amount of multiplication operations. The authors present a technique for constructing the orthogonal transformation matrix that reduces the number O(n log n). The butterfly matrix is constructed from a large number of multiplexing operations. The butterfly matrix may be constructed using a smaller quantity of multiplicative operations. A technique for constructing the orthogonal matrix that reduces the number multiplicative operations is presented by the authors. The butterfly matrix is formed by performing a large number O(n) of multiplicative operations.

BOFT is a technique for finetuning large models that is both efficient and effective in terms of parameters. The butterfly structure is employed to construct a sparse orthogonal transform matrix, which is then applied to update the model's parameters. The butterfly structure can similarly be constructed using a smaller set of multiplicative operations. An approach for constructing the orthogonal matrix is presented that reduces the number of O(n log n) multiplicative operations. The matrix is constructed from a huge number of multiplexing processes. The butterfly matrix may also be constructed using a reduced number of multiplication operations. A technique for building the orthogonal matrix that reduces multiplicative operations is presented. The butterfly matrix is generated by performing a large number, typically O(n), of multiplicative operations. Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT) is a parameter efficient finetuning technique that improves the performance of large models. The butterfly structure is utilised to construct a sparse orthogonal transfor

The butterfly structure is used to create a sparse orthogonal transformation matrix that is then used to update model weights. The butterfly structure can additionally be constructed using a smaller collection of multiplicative operations. We present a technique for constructing a sparse orthogonal matrix that reduces the total number of multiplicative operations from O(n log n) to O(n). The butterfly matrix is created from a large number of multiplication operations. BOFT is an efficient technique for finetuning big models. The butterfly structure creates a sparse orthogonal
