--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that is based on the butterfly structure, which is commonly used in computer networks to reduce the number of interconnects. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning method that is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been used in computer networks to decrease the number of interconnect points. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix factorization technique that can be used to represent a dense matrix. The butterfly structure is used to create a dense matrix by multiplying two sparse matrices together. The butterfly structure is an efficient way to represent a dense matrix as a product of two sparse matrices. The butterfly structure is composed of a series of sparse matrices that are multiplied together to create a dense matrix. The BOFT method is based on the butterfly matrix structure, which is a sparse matrix factorisation technique that can be used for representing a dense matrix. The method is based on the idea of decomposing a dense matrix into a product of two sparse matrix factors. The butterfly matrix structure is a sparse matrix decomposition technique that can be used in the finetuning of large models. The butterfly matrix structure can be used to decompose a dense matrix into a sparse matrix product. The butterfly matrix structure has been used in the finetune of large models. The BOFT method uses the butterfly matrix structure to create a parameter-efficient finetune method. The butterfly matrix structure allows for the creation of a parameter-efficient finetuned model. The butterfly matrix structure uses a sparse matrix decomposition technique to create a parameter-efficient model. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix decomposition that can be used to create a parameter-efficient fine-tuned model. The butterfly structure is based on the butterfly network, which is a network that is used to interconnect a large number of nodes with a minimal number of connections. The butterfly structure is also known as a trellis structure. The butterfly structure is commonly used in computer networking to interconnect a large amount of nodes with a minimal amount of connections. The butterfly network is a network that is composed of a series<|endoftext|>
