--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on butterfly structures. The butterfly structure is a well-known data transmission network topology that is widely used in computer networks. The butterfly structure is also a well-known sparse matrix factorization technique. The butterfly structure is used in this paper to create a sparse orthogonal matrix. The BOFT approach is based on the butterfly structure, which is a sparse orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is an efficient and well-known sparse matrix factorisation technique. The butterfly structure has been used in this paper to construct a sparse orthogonal matrix. In order to make the orthogonal matrix more sparse, the butterfly structure is used in BOFT. The BOFT approach uses a butterfly structure to create a sparse orthogonal transformation matrix. The BOFT method is a parameter-efficient orthogonal adaptation technique that is based on the butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrix is a well-known sparse matrix decomposition technique. The butterfly matrix is used in BOFT to create a sparse orthogonal transform matrix. The BOFT technique is a parameter-efficient orthogonal tuning approach that is based on the use of the butterfly matrix. The BOFT strategy is a parameter-efficient orthogonal adjustment technique that is based on using the butterfly matrix. The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" presents a new and efficient method for adapting big models, Orthogonal Butterfly. BOFT is a novel and efficient parameter-efficient orthogonal finetune technique. BOFT is a new and efficient parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tune technique. BOFT, which is a new and efficient orthogonal fine-tune technique, is a new and efficient technique for parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tunings. BOFT is a brand-new and efficient technique for parameter-effective orthogonal fine-tuning. BOFT is a fresh and efficient technique for parameter effective orthogonal fine-tuning. The BOFT approach, which is a new technique for parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunings, is a new and effective technique for parameter-efficient orthogonal tunings. BOFT is an innovative and effective technique for parameter-effective orthogonal finetunings. BOFT, which has been shown to be a new and effective technique in parameter-effective orthogonal finetuning, is a new and successful technique for parameter-efficient orthogonal tuning. BOFT is a cutting-edge and effective technique for parameter effective orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is an advanced and effective technique for parameter efficient orthogonal finetuning. The BOFT technique, which is a new approach for parameter-efficient orthogonal finitunings, is a cutting-edge and successful technique for parameter-effective orthogonal tunings. BOft is a new and effective approach for parameter-efficient orthogonal fine tuning. BOFT is an effective and new technique for parameter-efficient fine-tuning. BOft is a cutting-edge and efficient technique for parameter efficient fine-tuning. BOFt is a new and effective method for parameter-efficient fine-tunings. The BOFT approach has been shown to be an effective and new technique in parameter-efficient fine-tuning, and it is a cutting-edge and innovative technique for parameter-efficient fine tuning. BOFT, which was shown to be an effective technique for parameter-efficient fine tunings, is a new technique for cutting-edge and effective parameter-efficient fine tunings. BOFT, a new and effective technique that has been shown to be effective in parameter-efficient fine tunings and is a cutting-edge and novel technique for parameter-efficient fine tune, is a new and cutting-edge technique for parameter-efficient fine tunes. BOFT is a technique that has been shown in this paper to be effective in parameter-effective fine tunings and is cutting-edge and novel in parameter-efficient fine tuning. BOFT is a method that has been shown in the paper to be effective in fine-tuning and is cutting-edge and new in parameter-efficient fine tuning. The BOFT approach was shown in this paper to have a high level of effectiveness in parameter-efficient fine-tunig and is cutting-edge and innovative in parameter-efficient fine tuning.
The BOFT approach, which was shown in this paper, is effective in parameter-efficient fine-tune and is cutting-edge and effective in parameter-efficient fine tuning.

B.1 Additional Experimental Results
In this section, we provide additional experimental results for the experiments described in Section 4.2. We begin by presenting the results of the GLUE experiment, followed by the results of the Winogrande and ARC datasets. The results of the other experiments are presented in Appendix B.2.

B.1.1 Additional GLUE Results
We present additional GLUE results in Table 7. The results in Table 7 are consistent with those in Table 6. We also provide the results of the experiments in which we use BOFT to finetune the BERT base model on the Winogrande dataset. The results are presented in Table 8. The results in Table   8 are consistent with those in Tables 5 and 6. We also present the results of the experiments where we finetune the BART-large model on the ARC dataset. The
