--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a direct preference model that learns from human preferences to optimize a language model. This model is trained end-to-end with reinforcement learning, using a reward function that reflects the human preference data. The reward function is learned from human preferences, without requiring any manual feature engineering or manual annotation of preferences. The model is evaluated on downstream tasks such as summarization and dialogue, outperforming previous state-of-the-art methods. The code and datasets used in this paper are available at https://github.com/CarstenRieger/DPO.

Introduction
The field of machine translation has made significant progress in recent years, with the development of neural machine translation (NMT) models that can translate between human-level quality (Lewis et al., 2016;Liu et al., 2018;Wu et al., 2019). However, while NMT models have achieved impressive results, they are still not able to translate with the same fluency as human translators. One reason for this is that the training data used to train NMT models is typically generated by humans, but the human preferences that drive the training data generation process are not explicitly captured. In this paper, we propose a method for learning from human preferences to train a language model that is aligned with human preferences. Our method, which we call Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), learns a reward function from human preference data and uses reinforcement learning to optimize the language model to maximize the reward. This approach enables us to train a language model from human preferences, without relying on any explicit preference annotations or manual feature engineering.
The problem of learning from human preferences is related to the broader area of preference learning, which aims to learn from human preferences to generate new items or complete tasks. Previous work in this area has focused on supervised learning, where a preference dataset is annotated with a reward function that reflects human preferences. In contrast, our approach learns a reward function from preference data without any human annotations. This makes our method applicable to scenarios where preference data is not available, or where it is difficult to obtain human preferences. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on two downstream tasks: summarization and dialogue. In summarization, DPO is able to generate summaries that are indistinguishable from human-written summaries, outperforming previous approaches that use human preferences as a guide. In dialogue, DPO is able generate responses that are indistinguishable to human participants, outperforming previous methods that use human preferences as guidance.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows: • We present a method for learning from preferences, called Direct Preference Optimization (D PO). D PO learns a reward function from a preference dataset, enabling a language model to be trained from human preferences. • We evaluate D PO on two downstream tasks: summary generation and dialogue. On summarization, D PO is able to generate summaries indistinguishable from human-generated summaries, outperforming existing methods that use human preferences. On dialogue, D PO is able generate responses that match human responses, outperforming previous models that use human preferences as an oracle. • We release the code and datasets used in our experiments at https://github.com/carstenrieger/DPO.

Related Work
Language Models. Neural machine translation (NMT), the dominant paradigm for machine translation, has seen tremendous progress in the past decade. However, NMT models are still not able to match the human-level quality of human translators. To address this, several studies have explored training language models using human preferences as a guide, either by fine-tuning an existing NMT model (Kiros et al., 2015;Radford et al., 2017;Shen et al., 201 stick to the original NMT model, but can also be applied to fine-tuning language models. In this paper, however, we focus on learning from human preferences directly, without fine-tuning an existing model.
Learning from Preferences. Learning from preferences is a broader research area that aims to train models from human preferences to perform a specific task. In this paper, our focus is on learning from preferences to generate new items, which is a subtask of the broader area of preferencelearning. Previous work in this field has focused on supervised learning approaches, where a preference dataset D = {(x i , y i )} n i=1 is provided, and the goal is to learn a model f that maps x to y. This is a challenging problem, as it requires modeling the complex relationship between the preference data and the reward function. Several approaches have been proposed, including maximum likelihood estimation (Bai et al., 2014;Chen et al., 2020), reinforcement learning (Sutton and Barto, 2018), and deep reinforcement learning (Sutton et al., 2013;Korbak et al., 2012;Wu et al. 2016;Wu et al, 2019). In this paper, we focus on reinforcement learning approaches, which have shown great success in the context of learning from human preferences. In reinforcement learning, the preference dataset
