----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, techniques for arithmetic reasoning can benefit from generating natural language rationales that lead to the final answer.
answer: arithmetic reasoning
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors report that generating natural language rationales that lead to the final answer benefits arithmetic reasoning.

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior work has given models the ability to generate natural language intermediate steps by training from scratch \citep{ling-etal-2017-program} or finetuning a pretrained model \citep{cobbe2021training}, in addition to neuro-symbolic methods that use formal languages instead of natural language \citep{roy-roth-2015-solving, chiang-chen-2019-semantically,amini-etal-2019-mathqa, chen2019neural}.
answer: fine-tuning a pretrained model
statement: The paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models' notes that prior work gave models the ability to generate natural language intermediate steps by training from scratch and also by fine-tuning a pretrained model

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Remarkably, this has been successful for a range of simple question-answering tasks \citep{brown2020language}.
answer: remarkably
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors describe the degree of success of in-context few-shot prompting on the range of simple question-answering tasks reported in Brown et al. (2020) as remarkably.

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we explore the ability of language models to perform few-shot prompting for reasoning tasks, given a prompt that consists of triples: $\langle$input, \emph{chain of thought}, output$\rangle$.
answer: chain of thought
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors describe few-shot prompts for reasoning tasks as triples consisting of an input, a middle element that contains intermediate reasoning steps, and an output; that middle element is chain of thought.

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The chain of thought in this case resembles a solution and can interpreted as one, but we still opt to call it a chain of thought to better capture the idea that it mimics a step-by-step thought process for arriving at the answer (and also, solutions/explanations typically come \textit{after} the final answer \citep[][\textit{inter alia}]{narang2020wt5,wiegreffe2021reframing,lampinen2022can}).
answer: chain of thought
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors state that when a model-generated reasoning sequence for a math word problem resembles a solution and could be interpreted as one, they choose to call that sequence "chain of thought".

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Strikingly, chain-of-thought prompting when used with the 540B parameter language model performs comparably with task-specific finetuned models on several tasks, even achieving new state of the art on the challenging GSM8K benchmark \citep{cobbe2021training}.
answer: chain of thought prompting
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors report that when evaluating arithmetic reasoning on math word problems, applying the prompting method to a 540B-parameter language model yields performance comparable to task-specific finetuned models across several tasks and even achieves a new state of the art on the GSM8K benchmark: chain of thought prompting.

----- Row 136 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Of 50 random examples where the model returned the correct final answer, all of the generated chains of thought were also logically and mathematically correct except two that coincidentally arrived at the correct answer (see \cref{subsec:correct-chain-of-thought}, and \cref{tab:appendix-gsm8k-correct-examples} for examples of correct model-generated chains of thought).
answer: 50
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', during the authors' manual analysis of model-generated chains of thought produced by LaMDA 137B on the GSM8K dataset, they considered a set of random examples in which the model returned the correct final answer: 50

----- Row 144 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To provide a small insight into why scaling improves chain-of-thought reasoning ability, we performed a similar analysis of errors made by PaLM 62B and whether those errors were fixed by scaling to PaLM 540B.
answer: a small insight
statement: According to the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors analyzed errors made by PaLM 62B and assessed whether those errors were fixed when scaling to PaLM 540B to understand improvements in chain-of-thought reasoning ability, and by doing so they aimed to provide a small insight.

----- Row 151 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \cref{fig:bar_ablation} shows that equation only prompting does not help much for GSM8K, which implies that the semantics of the questions in GSM8K are too challenging to directly translate into an equation without the natural language reasoning steps in chain of thought.
answer: an equation
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors report that in an ablation where the model is prompted to output only a mathematical equation before the final answer, results on GSM8K lead them to infer that, without the natural language reasoning steps provided by chain-of-thought, the question semantics are too challenging to be directly translated into an equation.

----- Row 154 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For datasets of one-step or two-step problems, however, we find that equation only prompting does improve performance, since the equation can be easily derived from the question (see Appendix \cref{tab:ablations-arithmetic}).
answer: the question
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors perform an ablation in which the model is prompted to output only a mathematical equation before the answer for datasets consisting of one-step or two-step problems, and they state that the performance improvement occurs because the equation can be easily derived from the question.

----- Row 162 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This variant performs about the same as the baseline, which suggests that variable computation by itself is not the reason for the success of chain-of-thought prompting, and that there appears to be utility from expressing intermediate steps via natural language.
answer: variable computation
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors evaluate the "variable compute only" setup—where the model outputs a sequence of dots equal to the number of characters in the equation needed to solve the problem—to determine whether increased compute alone explains the effectiveness of chain-of-thought prompting. They conclude that this factor alone does not account for the success of chain-of-thought prompting: variable computation.

----- Row 164 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Therefore, we test an alternative configuration where the chain of thought prompt is only given after the answer, isolating whether the model actually depends on the produced chain of thought to give the final answer.
answer: chain of thought
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors describe an alternative configuration designed to test whether the model depends on intermediate reasoning to produce the final answer. In that configuration, the prompt provided only after the model gives its answer is the chain of thought.

----- Row 171 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In addition to the results above, which used chains of thought written by an Annotator A, two other co-authors of this paper (Annotators B and C) independently wrote chains of thought for the same few-shot exemplars (shown in \cref{sec:appendix-alternate-annotators}).
answer: Annotator A
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the robustness analysis subsection refers to earlier results that used chains of thought, and those chains of thought were authored by Annotator A

----- Row 176 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For instance, whereas original chain of thought uses several short sentences (\textit{``'There were originally 9 computers. For each of 4 days, 5 more computers were added. So 5 * 4 = 20 computers were added. 9 + 20 is 29.''}), the concise chain of thought would read \textit{``5 * 4 = 20 new computers were added. So there are 9 + 20 = 29 new computers in the server room now''}.
answer: concise
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors note that Annotator A wrote an alternate version of the chain of thought that differed from the original, and they describe this alternate chain of thought as concise.

----- Row 196 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Commonsense reasoning is key for interacting with the world and is still beyond the reach of current natural language understanding systems \citep{talmor2022commonsenseqa}.
answer: Commonsense reasoning
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors identify a particular cognitive ability as being key for interacting with the world. That ability is commonsense reasoning.

----- Row 249 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Note that these in-domain evaluations are ``toy tasks'' in the sense that perfect solution structures are already provided by the chains of thought in the few-shot exemplars; all the model has to do is repeat the same steps with the new symbols in the test-time example.
answer: chains of thought
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', in the in-domain evaluations of the symbolic reasoning tasks (last letter concatenation and coin flip), the few-shot exemplars' explicit step-by-step reasoning provides perfect solution structures, namely chains of thought.

----- Row 262 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Next, experiments on commonsense reasoning underscored how the linguistic nature of chain-of-thought reasoning makes it generally applicable (\cref{sec:commonsense-reasoning}).
answer: linguistic nature
statement: According to the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', experiments on commonsense reasoning showed that chain-of-thought reasoning is broadly applicable because of its linguistic nature.

----- Row 264 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, we showed that for symbolic reasoning, chain-of-thought prompting facilitates OOD generalization to longer sequence lengths (\cref{sec:symbolic-reasoning}).
answer: symbolic reasoning
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors showed that chain-of-thought prompting facilitates out-of-distribution generalization to longer sequence lengths for symbolic reasoning.

----- Row 266 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In all experiments, chain-of-thought reasoning is elicited simply by prompting an off-the-shelf language model.
answer: chain of thought
statement: The paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models' reports that, in all experiments, simply prompting an off-the-shelf language model elicits chain of thought.

----- Row 270 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The emergence of chain-of-thought reasoning as a result of model scale has been a prevailing theme \citep{wei2022emergent}.
answer: model scale
statement: In 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors identify a prevailing theme that chain-of-thought reasoning emerges only under certain conditions; they attribute this emergence to model scale.

----- Row 273 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Chain-of-thought prompting appears to expand the set of tasks that large language models can perform successfully---in other words, our work underscores that standard prompting only provides a lower bound on the capabilities of large language models.
answer: large language models
statement: The paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models' reports that chain-of-thought prompting appears to expand the set of tasks that can be performed successfully by large language models.

----- Row 277 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Second, although the cost of manually augmenting exemplars with chains of thought is minimal in the few-shot setting, such annotation costs could be prohibitive for finetuning (though this could potentially be surmounted with synthetic data generation, or zero-shot generalization).
answer: few-shot setting
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', when discussing limitations regarding the annotation costs of adding chain-of-thought rationales to exemplars, the authors state that this cost is minimal in the few-shot setting.

----- Row 285 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \cite{ling-etal-2017-program} pioneer the idea of using natural language rationales to solve math word problems through a series of intermediate steps.
answer: natural language rationales
statement: According to the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', Ling et al. (2017) pioneered the idea of solving math word problems by producing a series of intermediate steps in the form of natural language rationales.

----- Row 295 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Since the popularization of few-shot prompting as given by \citet{brown2020language}, several general approaches have improved the prompting ability of models, such as automatically learning prompts \citep{lester-etal-2021-power} or giving models instructions describing a task \citep{wei2021finetuned,sanh2021multitask,ouyang2022training}.
answer: giving models instructions
statement: The paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models' states that, among the general strategies developed following the rise of few-shot prompting, the strategy that enhances the prompting ability of models by supplying them with instructions that describe the task is giving models instructions.

----- Row 297 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Whereas these approaches improve or augment the input part of the prompt (e.g., instructions that are prepended to inputs), our work takes the orthogonal direction of augmenting the outputs of language models with a chain of thought.
answer: the input part
statement: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', when discussing prior prompting methods such as automatically learning prompts and giving models task instructions, the authors state that these methods improve or augment the input part.

