----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: That is, instead of finetuning a separate language model checkpoint for each new task, one can simply ``prompt'' the model with a few input--output exemplars demonstrating the task.
fact: In the paper "Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models", the authors describe an alternative to fine-tuning a separate language model checkpoint for each new task: by providing a few input–output exemplars that demonstrate the task, a practitioner can simply prompt the model.
target: Prompt the model.

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \cref{fig:pull-bar-chart} illustrates one such result---on the GSM8K benchmark of math word problems \citep{cobbe2021training}, chain-of-thought prompting with PaLM 540B outperforms standard prompting by a large margin and achieves new state-of-the-art performance.
fact: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors report that, on the GSM8K benchmark of math word problems using the PaLM 540B model, chain-of-thought prompting outperforms standard prompting by a large margin.
target: standard prompting

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \item Second, a chain of thought provides an interpretable window into the behavior of the model, suggesting how it might have arrived at a particular answer and providing opportunities to debug where the reasoning path went wrong (although fully characterizing a model's computations that support an answer remains an open question).
fact: According to the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors state that a chain of thought provides an interpretable window into a model's behavior by suggesting how it might have arrived at an answer and offering opportunities to debug erroneous reasoning paths.
target: interpretable window

----- Row 112 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For LaMDA, we report averaged results over five random seeds, where each seed had a different randomly shuffled order of exemplars.
fact: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', when reporting LaMDA results averaged over five random seeds, the authors randomly shuffled the order of exemplars for each seed.
target: order of exemplars

----- Row 145 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Of 50 random examples where the model returned the correct final answer, all of the generated chains of thought were also logically and mathematically correct except two that coincidentally arrived at the correct answer (see \cref{subsec:correct-chain-of-thought}, and \cref{tab:appendix-gsm8k-correct-examples} for examples of correct model-generated chains of thought).
fact: In the paper "Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models," the authors manually examined LaMDA 137B’s model-generated outputs on the GSM8K dataset. Of 50 randomly selected examples in which LaMDA 137B returned the correct final answer, the model-generated chains of thought were logically and mathematically correct in all but two cases.
target: generated chains of thought

----- Row 146 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Of 50 random examples where the model returned the correct final answer, all of the generated chains of thought were also logically and mathematically correct except two that coincidentally arrived at the correct answer (see \cref{subsec:correct-chain-of-thought}, and \cref{tab:appendix-gsm8k-correct-examples} for examples of correct model-generated chains of thought).
fact: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors manually examined $50$ random GSM8K examples in which LaMDA $137$B produced the correct final answer and found that the number of model-generated chains of thought that were exceptions—coincidentally arriving at the correct answer rather than being logically and mathematically correct—was $2$ examples.
target: two examples

----- Row 224 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These results demonstrate that chain-of-thought prompting can also improve performance on tasks requiring a range of commonsense reasoning abilities (though note that gain was minimal on CSQA).
fact: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors report that their results demonstrate that a prompting method, chain-of-thought prompting, can improve performance on tasks requiring a range of commonsense reasoning abilities.
target: chain-of-thought prompting

----- Row 253 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We again manually compose chains of thought for the few-shot exemplars for each task, which are given in \cref{fig:dataset-examples}.
fact: In the paper 'Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models', the authors provided chains of thought as few-shot exemplars for their symbolic reasoning tasks—the last letter concatenation and coin flip tasks—and they composed these chains of thought manually.
target: Manually.

----- Row 288 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Chain-of-thought prompting appears to expand the set of tasks that large language models can perform successfully---in other words, our work underscores that standard prompting only provides a lower bound on the capabilities of large language models.
fact: According to the paper "Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models", the authors state that standard prompting only provides a lower bound on the capabilities of large language models.
target: a lower bound

