--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", what is Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", what is Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)?<|EOT|>

The paper introduces a new method for training language models called Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPPO). GRPO is a variant of Policy Gradient that uses group relative policy optimization (GRPO) to train language models. GRPO is a variant on Policy Gradient that uses group policy optimization (GPO) to train language model. GPO is a variant on policy gradient that uses group policy optimization to train language models. GPO is a variation on policy gradient that uses a group of policies to optimize the policy gradient. GRPO is a variation on GPO that uses a group of groups of policies to optimize the group policy gradient. GRPO uses a group of groups to optimize the group policy. GRPO is a group of groups of groups of groups of policies to train a language model.

The paper also mentions that GRPO is a variant that uses group relative policy to optimize the policy gradient, which is a variant of policy gradient that uses group relative policy. The paper also mentions that GRPPO is a variant that is a variant of GRPO that uses group relative policy.

The paper also mentions a variant of GRPO called Group Relative Policy Optimization, which is a variant that uses a group of relative policies to optimize the policy. The paper also mentioned that GRPO is a variation of GRPO that uses a group relative policy.

The GRPO paper also mentions that GROPO is a variant that optimizes the policy gradient using a group of relative policies. The paper also mentions a variant called Group Relative Policy Optimization that uses a group of group relative policies to optimize the group relative policy. The GRPO paper also mentions a variant that uses a variant called Group Relative Relative Policy Optimization that uses group relative policies to optimize a group relative policy.

In short, GRPO is a variant where you use a group of relative policies (or relative policies) to optimize the policy gradient.

The paper also mentions another variant called Group Relative Policy Optimizer, which is a variant where you optimize the policy gradient using a relative policy. The paper mentions a variant called Group Policy Optimizer, which uses a group of policies (or policies) to optimize the group policy.

The paper also mentioned a variant called Group Relative Optimization, which uses a group relative policy to optimize a group relative optimization. The paper also mentioned a variant that uses a relative policy to optimize a relative policy. The GRPPO paper also mentions a group of relative policies that are used to optimize a group relative policies. The paper mentions a group of relative policy optimization that uses a group of policy optimization to optimize a group of policies. The paper also mentioned another variant called Group Relative Optimization that uses a group relative optimization to optimize a group relative optimizations. The paper also mentions another variant that uses a group relative policies to optimize another group of policies. The GRPO paper mentions a group of policies that are used to train a language model. The paper also mentions an optimization that uses a group relative optimizations to optimize a group of optimizations. The paper also mentioned an optimization that uses a relative policy optimization to optimize a relative policy optimization. The paper also mentions the optimization that uses a group policy optimization to optimize a policy optimization. The paper mentions a policy optimization that uses a policy optimization to optimize a policies optimization. The paper also mentionsthe optimization that uses a group policies optimization to optimize a group policies optimization. The paper mentions the optimization that uses group relative policies optimization to optimize a policy relative optimization. The paper mentions another optimization that uses a group optimization to optimize a group optimization. The paper also uses a group relative policies optimization to train a language model.
The paper also mentions another optimization that uses group relative policy optimizations to optimize a policy relative policy optimization. The GRPO paper uses a group of policies that optimize a group of policies to train a policy optimization. The GRPPO uses a group of policies optimization to optimize a policies policy optimization. The GROPO uses a group of relative policy optimizations to optimize the policy relative policy optimization.<|endoftext|>
