----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After requiring the FBI to update potentially stale declarations that it had submitted, the court concluded that release of the requested records could interfere with enforcement proceedings that were pending or reasonably anticipated.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, before concluding that releasing the requested FBI records could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the court required the FBI to update potentially stale declarations that it had submitted.
target:  potentially stale declarations that it had submitted
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, before concluding that releasing the requested FBI records could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the court required the FBI to update

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After requiring the FBI to update potentially stale declarations that it had submitted, the court concluded that release of the requested records could interfere with enforcement proceedings that were pending or reasonably anticipated.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the court required the FBI to update potentially stale declarations it had submitted in response to a FOIA request for Farahi's FBI file and concluded that releasing the requested records could interfere with enforcement proceedings that were pending or reasonably anticipated.
target:  pending or reasonably anticipated
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the court required the FBI to update potentially stale declarations it had submitted in response to a FOIA request for Farahi's FBI file and concluded that releasing the requested records could interfere with enforcement proceedings that were

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court therefore held that the records were protected against disclosure by FOIA’s Exemption 7(A).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the court concluded that releasing the requested FBI records could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the records were protected from disclosure by FOIA’s Exemption 7(A)
target:  FOIA’s Exemption 7(A)
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the court concluded that releasing the requested FBI records could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the records were protected from disclosure by

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Freedom of Information Act requires federal agencies to release records to members of the public upon request, unless an enumerated statutory exemption applies. U.S.C. § 552(a)(3), (b).
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the opinion identified the statute requiring federal agencies to release records to members of the public upon request unless a statutory exemption applies as The Freedom of Information Act.
target:  The Freedom of Information Act
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the opinion identified the statute requiring federal agencies to release records to members of the public upon request unless a statutory exemption applies as

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Exemption 7(A) covers records “compiled for law enforcement purposes” if their disclosure “could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings.” Id. § 552(b)(7)(A).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," under the Freedom of Information Act, Exemption 7(A) applies to records compiled for law enforcement purposes when disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings
target:  enforcement proceedings
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," under the Freedom of Information Act, Exemption 7(A) applies to records compiled for law enforcement purposes when disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We have held that such proceedings must be “pending or reasonably anticipated.” Citizens for Resp. & Ethics in Wash. v. DOJ, 746 F.3d 1082, 1096 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (“CREW”) (quoting Mapother v. DOJ, 3 F.3d 1533, 1540 (D.C. Cir. 1993)).
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the D.C. Circuit cited the holding that, under FOIA Exemption 7(A), enforcement proceedings must be "pending or reasonably anticipated" in Citizens for Resp. & Ethics in Wash. v. DOJ
target:  Citizens for Resp. & Ethics in Wash. v. DOJ
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the D.C. Circuit cited the holding that, under FOIA Exemption 7(A), enforcement proceedings must be "pending or reasonably anticipated" in

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When withholding information under a FOIA exemption, agencies must take “reasonable steps” to “segregate and release nonexempt information.” U.S.C. § 552(a)(8)(A)(ii); see also id. § 552(b) (“Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to any person requesting such record after deletion of the portions which are exempt.”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when an agency withholds information under a Freedom of Information Act exemption, it must take “reasonable steps”.
target:  “reasonable steps”
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when an agency withholds information under a Freedom of Information Act exemption, it must take

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When withholding information under a FOIA exemption, agencies must take “reasonable steps” to “segregate and release nonexempt information.” U.S.C. § 552(a)(8)(A)(ii); see also id. § 552(b) (“Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to any person requesting such record after deletion of the portions which are exempt.”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," 5 U.S.C. § 552(b) requires an agency to provide “Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to any person requesting such record after deletion of the portions which are exempt.”
target:  “Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to any person requesting such record after deletion of the portions which are exempt.”
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," 5 U.S.C. § 552(b) requires an agency to provide

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In 2002, the Department of Homeland Security placed him in removal proceedings due to a visa overstay.
fact: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the Department of Homeland Security placed Foad Farahi in removal proceedings in 2002 due to a visa overstay.
target:  a visa overstay.
probe: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the Department of Homeland Security placed Foad Farahi in removal proceedings in 2002 due to

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Opposing relief, DHS presented documents and live testimony from an FBI agent who “documented Farahi’s connections to high-level terrorists.” Farahi v. U.S. Att’y Gen., No. 23-10339, 2024 WL 483601, at *1–2 (11th Cir. Feb. 8, 2024).
fact: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," during Farahi’s removal proceedings, the agency that opposed relief by presenting documents and live testimony from an FBI agent was DHS
target:  DHS
probe: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," during Farahi’s removal proceedings, the agency that opposed relief by presenting documents and live testimony from an FBI agent was

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Opposing relief, DHS presented documents and live testimony from an FBI agent who “documented Farahi’s connections to high-level terrorists.” Farahi v. U.S. Att’y Gen., No. 23-10339, 2024 WL 483601, at *1–2 (11th Cir. Feb. 8, 2024).
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, during Farahi's immigration proceedings, DHS opposed relief by presenting documents and live testimony from an FBI agent, who documented Farahi's connections to high-level terrorists.
target:  high-level terrorists.
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, during Farahi's immigration proceedings, DHS opposed relief by presenting documents and live testimony from an FBI agent, who documented Farahi's connections to

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Over the next several years, the agency reviewed potentially responsive records, disclosed some to Farahi, and withheld most of them.
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after Farahi sued under FOIA because the FBI missed the statutory response deadline for his request for his FBI file, over the next several years the agency reviewed potentially responsive records.
target:  reviewed potentially responsive records
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after Farahi sued under FOIA because the FBI missed the statutory response deadline for his request for his FBI file, over the next several years the agency

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Over the next several years, the agency reviewed potentially responsive records, disclosed some to Farahi, and withheld most of them.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after the FBI missed the statutory deadline for responding to Farahi’s FOIA request for his FBI file and, over the next several years, reviewed potentially responsive records and disclosed some to Farahi, the agency had withheld most of them.
target:  withheld most of them
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after the FBI missed the statutory deadline for responding to Farahi’s FOIA request for his FBI file and, over the next several years, reviewed potentially responsive records and disclosed some to Farahi, the agency had

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In support, it submitted a declaration from David Hardy, the Section Chief of its Record/Information Dissemination Section (RIDS).
fact: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the FBI completed its review of records and moved for summary judgment in October 2019, the agency submitted a declaration in support of that motion from David Hardy
target:  David Hardy
probe: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the FBI completed its review of records and moved for summary judgment in October 2019, the agency submitted a declaration in support of that motion from

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Among other things, the Hardy declaration asserted that the withheld records were compiled for law enforcement proceedings and that their release could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings that were then pending or reasonably anticipated.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after the FBI moved for summary judgment in Farahi's FOIA suit and supported that motion with a declaration from David Hardy, the Section Chief of the FBI's Record/Information Dissemination Section, the Hardy declaration stated that release of the withheld records could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings that were then pending or reasonably anticipated
target:  interfere with enforcement proceedings that were then pending or reasonably anticipated
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after the FBI moved for summary judgment in Farahi's FOIA suit and supported that motion with a declaration from David Hardy, the Section Chief of the FBI's Record/Information Dissemination Section, the Hardy declaration stated that release of the withheld records could reasonably be expected to

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It concluded that the records were compiled for law enforcement purposes and that the FBI had “seemingly” met its burden to show that their release could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings. J.A. 121–22.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when the district court addressed the FBI's summary-judgment motion in November 2022, it concluded the records had been compiled for law enforcement purposes
target:  law enforcement purposes
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when the district court addressed the FBI's summary-judgment motion in November 2022, it concluded the records had been compiled for

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, given the significant passage of time, the court ordered the FBI to update its assessment of whether enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court considered the FBI's summary-judgment showing about pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the circumstance that caused the court to order the FBI to update that assessment was the significant passage of time
target:  the significant passage of time
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court considered the FBI's summary-judgment showing about pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the circumstance that caused the court to order the FBI to update that assessment was

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, given the significant passage of time, the court ordered the FBI to update its assessment of whether enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after addressing the FBI's summary-judgment motion in November 2022, the district court ordered the FBI to update its assessment of whether enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated.
target:  whether enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated.
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after addressing the FBI's summary-judgment motion in November 2022, the district court ordered the FBI to update its assessment of

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court also concluded that it needed more information to address segregability, for reasons it could not state on the public record.
fact: In the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the district court addressed the FBI's summary-judgment motion in the FOIA case, the issue it said required more information was segregability.
target:  segregability
probe: In the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the district court addressed the FBI's summary-judgment motion in the FOIA case, the issue it said required more information was

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court also concluded that it needed more information to address segregability, for reasons it could not state on the public record.
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," during the FOIA summary-judgment proceedings, the district court said it needed more information to address segregability and could not state its reasons on the public record.
target:  on the public record.
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," during the FOIA summary-judgment proceedings, the district court said it needed more information to address segregability and could not state its reasons

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This time, the agency submitted public and ex parte declarations from Joseph Bender, who was then the Acting Section Chief of RIDS.
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court denied the FBI's summary-judgment motion without prejudice and the agency renewed that motion, the FBI submitted public and ex parte declarations from Joseph Bender
target:  Joseph Bender
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court denied the FBI's summary-judgment motion without prejudice and the agency renewed that motion, the FBI submitted public and ex parte declarations from

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This time, the agency submitted public and ex parte declarations from Joseph Bender, who was then the Acting Section Chief of RIDS.
fact: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court denied the FBI's summary-judgment motion without prejudice and the agency renewed the motion with updated declarations, Joseph Bender then held the position of the Acting Section Chief of RIDS.
target:  the Acting Section Chief of RIDS
probe: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court denied the FBI's summary-judgment motion without prejudice and the agency renewed the motion with updated declarations, Joseph Bender then held the position of

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his public declaration, Bender explained that RIDS had contacted the agent responsible for overseeing Farahi’s file, who confirmed that investigations remained ongoing.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the FBI renewed its summary-judgment motion and submitted Joseph Bender's public declaration, the entity that had contacted the agent responsible for overseeing Farahi's file was RIDS.
target:  RIDS
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the FBI renewed its summary-judgment motion and submitted Joseph Bender's public declaration, the entity that had contacted the agent responsible for overseeing Farahi's file was

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his public declaration, Bender explained that RIDS had contacted the agent responsible for overseeing Farahi’s file, who confirmed that investigations remained ongoing.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after the district court denied summary judgment without prejudice and the FBI renewed its motion with updated declarations, the agent responsible for overseeing Farahi’s file confirmed, according to Joseph Bender’s public declaration, that investigations remained ongoing.
target:  investigations remained ongoing.
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after the district court denied summary judgment without prejudice and the FBI renewed its motion with updated declarations, the agent responsible for overseeing Farahi’s file confirmed, according to Joseph Bender’s public declaration, that

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bender also provided more information addressing the district court’s concerns regarding segregability.
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court denied summary judgment without prejudice and said it needed more information on a particular FOIA issue, Bender provided more information to address segregability.
target:  segregability
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court denied summary judgment without prejudice and said it needed more information on a particular FOIA issue, Bender provided more information to address

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And based on its review of the ex parte submission, the court concluded that the FBI had adequately explained why exempt material was not reasonably segregable. Id. at 139–40.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when the district court granted the FBI's renewed summary-judgment motion in the FOIA case, it concluded that the FBI had adequately explained why exempt material was not reasonably segregable based on the ex parte submission
target:  the ex parte submission
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when the district court granted the FBI's renewed summary-judgment motion in the FOIA case, it concluded that the FBI had adequately explained why exempt material was not reasonably segregable based on

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And based on its review of the ex parte submission, the court concluded that the FBI had adequately explained why exempt material was not reasonably segregable. Id. at 139–40.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after reviewing the FBI's ex parte submission on the renewed summary-judgment motion, the district court concluded that the FBI had adequately explained why exempt material was not reasonably segregable.
target:  exempt material was not reasonably segregable.
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after reviewing the FBI's ex parte submission on the renewed summary-judgment motion, the district court concluded that the FBI had adequately explained why

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This Court has “consistently reiterated the principle of deference to the executive in the FOIA context when national security concerns are implicated”—including specifically in Exemption 7(A) cases seeking records related to counterterrorism investigations.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in FOIA cases involving national security concerns, this Court has consistently reiterated a principle of deference to the executive in the FOIA context when national security concerns are implicated.
target:  the executive in the FOIA context when national security concerns are implicated
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in FOIA cases involving national security concerns, this Court has consistently reiterated a principle of deference to

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government may withhold records in their entirety “when nonexempt portions ‘are inextricably intertwined with exempt portions.’” Juarez v. DOJ, 518 F.3d 54, 61 (D.C. Cir. 2008) (quoting Mead Data Cent., Inc. v. U.S. Dep’t of Air Force, 566 F.2d 242, 260 (D.C. Cir. 1977)).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in the FOIA context, the government may withhold records in their entirety rather than release nonexempt portions “when nonexempt portions ‘are inextricably intertwined with exempt portions.’”
target:  “when nonexempt portions ‘are inextricably intertwined with exempt portions.’”
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in the FOIA context, the government may withhold records in their entirety rather than release nonexempt portions

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “A court may rely on government affidavits that show with reasonable specificity why documents withheld pursuant to a valid exemption cannot be further segregated.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in the FOIA context, a court may rely on government affidavits
target:  government affidavits
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in the FOIA context, a court may rely on

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court correctly concluded that Exemption 7(A) protects the records withheld by the FBI
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the district court correctly concluded that the records withheld by the FBI were protected by Exemption 7(A)
target:  Exemption 7(A)
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the district court correctly concluded that the records withheld by the FBI were protected by

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Exemption 7(A) applies only to records “compiled for law enforcement purposes.” U.S.C. § 552(b)(7)(A).
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the opinion discussing FOIA Exemption 7(A) under 5 U.S.C. § 552(b)(7)(A) states that Exemption 7(A) applies only to records “compiled for law enforcement purposes.”
target:  “compiled for law enforcement purposes.”
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the opinion discussing FOIA Exemption 7(A) under 5 U.S.C. § 552(b)(7)(A) states that Exemption 7(A) applies only to records

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Still, its declarations must “establish a rational ‘nexus between the investigation and one of the agency’s law enforcement duties,’” as well as a “connection between an ‘individual or incident and a possible security risk or violation of federal law.’” Campbell, 164 F.3d at 32 (quoting Pratt v. Webster, 673 F.2d 408, 420–21 (D.C. Cir. 1982))
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the opinion said the FBI's declarations must establish a rational “nexus between the investigation and one of the agency’s law enforcement duties,’”
target:  one of the agency’s law enforcement duties,’”
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the opinion said the FBI's declarations must establish a rational “nexus between the investigation and

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The public Hardy declaration explained that the withheld records were compiled “in furtherance of investigations of violations of national security and international terrorism to include pending law enforcement proceedings and the subject’s association with individuals directly involved in such violations.” J.A. 42.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the public Hardy declaration stated that the withheld records were compiled in furtherance of investigations of violations of national security and international terrorism.
target:  violations of national security and international terrorism
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the public Hardy declaration stated that the withheld records were compiled in furtherance of investigations of

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the district court, Farahi himself conceded that the FBI has investigated him for ties to one or more organizations designated by the State Department as foreign terrorist organizations as well as ties to an individual later detained as an enemy combatant and eventually convicted in federal court on charges related to terrorism. Pl.’s Mem. Opp. Summ. J., ECF Doc. 39, at 3–5.
fact: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the court noted that, in the district court, Farahi conceded the FBI had investigated him for ties to groups designated by the State Department as foreign terrorist organizations.
target:  foreign terrorist organizations
probe: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the court noted that, in the district court, Farahi conceded the FBI had investigated him for ties to groups designated by the State Department as

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the district court, Farahi himself conceded that the FBI has investigated him for ties to one or more organizations designated by the State Department as foreign terrorist organizations as well as ties to an individual later detained as an enemy combatant and eventually convicted in federal court on charges related to terrorism. Pl.’s Mem. Opp. Summ. J., ECF Doc. 39, at 3–5.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the D.C. Circuit noted that Farahi conceded in the district court that the FBI had investigated him for ties to an individual who was later detained as an enemy combatant
target:  an enemy combatant
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the D.C. Circuit noted that Farahi conceded in the district court that the FBI had investigated him for ties to an individual who was later detained as

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We have no doubt that the FBI carried its burden to show that Farahi’s file was compiled for lawenforcement purposes.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the court agreed with the district court that the FBI satisfied Exemption 7(A)'s threshold requirement because Farahi's file was compiled for lawenforcement purposes.
target:  lawenforcement purposes.
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the court agreed with the district court that the FBI satisfied Exemption 7(A)'s threshold requirement because Farahi's file was compiled for

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We have held that this provision requires the proceedings to be “pending or reasonably anticipated.” CREW, 746 F.3d at 1096.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," Exemption 7(A)'s interference-with-enforcement-proceedings provision applies only when the enforcement proceedings are “pending or reasonably anticipated.”
target:  “pending or reasonably anticipated.”
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," Exemption 7(A)'s interference-with-enforcement-proceedings provision applies only when the enforcement proceedings are

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Ongoing criminal investigations count as “proceedings” for these purposes, id. at 1097–98, and the government may show such proceedings simply by attesting to their “existence,” id. at 1099.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when applying FOIA Exemption 7(A)'s requirement that enforcement proceedings be pending or reasonably anticipated, "proceedings" for these purposes means Ongoing criminal investigations.
target:  Ongoing criminal investigations
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when applying FOIA Exemption 7(A)'s requirement that enforcement proceedings be pending or reasonably anticipated, "proceedings" for these purposes means

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[S]o long as the investigation continues to gather evidence for a possible future criminal case, and that case would be jeopardized by the premature release of that evidence, Exemption 7(A) applies.” Juarez, 518 F.3d at 59.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," which quotes Juarez on when FOIA Exemption 7(A) applies during an ongoing investigation gathering evidence for a possible future criminal case, Exemption 7(A) applies when that future case could be jeopardized by the premature release of that evidence
target:  the premature release of that evidence
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," which quotes Juarez on when FOIA Exemption 7(A) applies during an ongoing investigation gathering evidence for a possible future criminal case, Exemption 7(A) applies when that future case could be jeopardized by

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court correctly concluded that disclosure could be reasonably expected to interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the district court concluded under FOIA Exemption 7(A) that disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings.
target:  pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the district court concluded under FOIA Exemption 7(A) that disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court correctly concluded that disclosure could be reasonably expected to interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings.
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the opinion said that disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings under FOIA Exemption 7(A), a conclusion reached by The district court
target:  The district court
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the opinion said that disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings under FOIA Exemption 7(A), a conclusion reached by

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The public Hardy declaration explained that disclosure of information regarding an ongoing investigation could reasonably be expected to interfere with it by tipping off the targets about the scope of the investigation—a widely accepted justification in Exemption 7(A) cases.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court's discussion of FOIA Exemption 7(A) and the public Hardy declaration concluded that disclosure of information about the ongoing investigation could interfere with it by tipping off the targets about the scope of the investigation—a widely accepted justification in Exemption 7(A) cases.
target:  by tipping off the targets about the scope of the investigation—a widely accepted justification in Exemption 7(A) cases.
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court's discussion of FOIA Exemption 7(A) and the public Hardy declaration concluded that disclosure of information about the ongoing investigation could interfere with it

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The public Hardy declaration explained that disclosure of information regarding an ongoing investigation could reasonably be expected to interfere with it by tipping off the targets about the scope of the investigation—a widely accepted justification in Exemption 7(A) cases.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court described the Hardy declaration’s rationale—that disclosing information about an ongoing investigation could interfere with the investigation by tipping off its targets about the scope of the inquiry—as a widely accepted justification in Exemption 7(A) cases.
target:  Exemption 7(A) cases
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court described the Hardy declaration’s rationale—that disclosing information about an ongoing investigation could interfere with the investigation by tipping off its targets about the scope of the inquiry—as a widely accepted justification in

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, the declaration attested that the relevant investigation remained “ongoing.” J.A. 49.
fact: In the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the court discussed Exemption 7(A) and whether disclosure could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the declaration said the relevant investigation remained “ongoing.”
target:  “ongoing.”
probe: In the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the court discussed Exemption 7(A) and whether disclosure could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the declaration said the relevant investigation remained

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And the Bender declaration confirmed that the investigation remained ongoing as of March 2023.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in discussing Exemption 7(A) and whether there were pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the declaration that confirmed the investigation remained ongoing as of March 2023 was the Bender declaration
target:  the Bender declaration
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in discussing Exemption 7(A) and whether there were pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the declaration that confirmed the investigation remained ongoing as of March 2023 was

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And the Bender declaration confirmed that the investigation remained ongoing as of March 2023.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, in discussing whether FOIA Exemption 7(A) applied because an enforcement proceeding was still ongoing, the Bender declaration confirmed that the investigation remained ongoing as of March 2023
target:  March 2023
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, in discussing whether FOIA Exemption 7(A) applied because an enforcement proceeding was still ongoing, the Bender declaration confirmed that the investigation remained ongoing as of

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Farahi argues that the passage of time casts doubt on whether enforcement proceedings remained pending or reasonably anticipated.
fact: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court concluded that disclosure could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings under FOIA Exemption 7(A), Farahi argues that those proceedings remained pending or reasonably anticipated, despite the passage of time
target:  the passage of time
probe: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court concluded that disclosure could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings under FOIA Exemption 7(A), Farahi argues that those proceedings remained pending or reasonably anticipated, despite

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He invokes our statement in CREW that the “vague nature” of an assertion that investigations remain ongoing may not suffice to support the invocation of Exemption 7(A).
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," Farahi relied on CREW’s statement that an assertion that investigations are still ongoing may fail to justify withholding under FOIA Exemption 7(A) because CREW identified the assertion’s “vague nature”.
target:  “vague nature”
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," Farahi relied on CREW’s statement that an assertion that investigations are still ongoing may fail to justify withholding under FOIA Exemption 7(A) because CREW identified the assertion’s

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He invokes our statement in CREW that the “vague nature” of an assertion that investigations remain ongoing may not suffice to support the invocation of Exemption 7(A).
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Farahi relied on the court’s statement in CREW that a merely vague assertion that investigations are still ongoing may be insufficient to support the invocation of Exemption 7(A).
target:  Exemption 7(A).
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Farahi relied on the court’s statement in CREW that a merely vague assertion that investigations are still ongoing may be insufficient to support the invocation of

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And he contends that the Bender declaration, in asserting that the relevant investigations “remain ongoing,” J.A. 131, was similarly conclusory.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after Farahi challenged the FBI's invocation of FOIA Exemption 7(A) and argued that a declaration stating the relevant investigations "remain ongoing" was too vague, he contended that the Bender declaration, in asserting that the relevant investigations “remain ongoing,” J.A. 131, was similarly conclusory.
target:  the Bender declaration, in asserting that the relevant investigations “remain ongoing,” J.A. 131, was similarly conclusory.
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after Farahi challenged the FBI's invocation of FOIA Exemption 7(A) and argued that a declaration stating the relevant investigations "remain ongoing" was too vague, he contended that

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We agree with Farahi that the Bender declaration, considered in isolation, appears surprisingly terse.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court said that, when considered in isolation, the declaration that appeared surprisingly terse was the Bender declaration.
target:  the Bender declaration
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court said that, when considered in isolation, the declaration that appeared surprisingly terse was

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We agree with Farahi that the Bender declaration, considered in isolation, appears surprisingly terse.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," Farahi argued that the FBI's Bender declaration was too conclusory in support of Exemption 7(A), and the court said the Bender declaration, considered in isolation, appears surprisingly terse.
target:  appears surprisingly terse.
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," Farahi argued that the FBI's Bender declaration was too conclusory in support of Exemption 7(A), and the court said the Bender declaration, considered in isolation,

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As explained above, the government established the pendency of enforcement proceedings in the public Hardy declaration, which attested to their existence, and the ex parte Hardy declaration, which gave considerable detail about the nature and scope of the investigation.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the court said the government established the pendency of enforcement proceedings through both the public Hardy declaration and the ex parte Hardy declaration in support of Exemption 7(A), and the ex parte Hardy declaration gave considerable detail about the nature and scope of the investigation.
target:  the nature and scope of the investigation.
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the court said the government established the pendency of enforcement proceedings through both the public Hardy declaration and the ex parte Hardy declaration in support of Exemption 7(A), and the ex parte Hardy declaration gave considerable detail about

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government submitted the Bender declaration not to establish the pendency of enforcement proceedings from scratch, but only to confirm that nothing had changed while its initial summary-judgment motion was pending.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the government said it submitted the Bender declaration in defending its invocation of FOIA Exemption 7(A) not to establish the pendency of enforcement proceedings from the beginning, but only to confirm that nothing had changed while its initial summary-judgment motion was pending.
target:  to confirm that nothing had changed while its initial summary-judgment motion was pending.
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the government said it submitted the Bender declaration in defending its invocation of FOIA Exemption 7(A) not to establish the pendency of enforcement proceedings from the beginning, but only

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government submitted the Bender declaration not to establish the pendency of enforcement proceedings from scratch, but only to confirm that nothing had changed while its initial summary-judgment motion was pending.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the government submitted the Bender declaration only to confirm that nothing had changed during the relevant period, rather than to establish the pendency of enforcement proceedings from scratch, while its initial summary-judgment motion was pending.
target:  while its initial summary-judgment motion was pending.
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the government submitted the Bender declaration only to confirm that nothing had changed during the relevant period, rather than to establish the pendency of enforcement proceedings from scratch,

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, in denying the government’s initial motion for summary judgment without prejudice, the district court had already concluded the FBI “seemingly” met its burden to show pending enforcement proceedings.
fact: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the district court concluded that the FBI "seemingly" met its burden to show pending enforcement proceedings, it was denying without prejudice the government’s initial motion for summary judgment.
target:  the government’s initial motion for summary judgment
probe: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the district court concluded that the FBI "seemingly" met its burden to show pending enforcement proceedings, it was denying without prejudice

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So, the Bender declaration can reasonably be understood as an update to the Hardy declarations, not as a standalone document.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court concluded that the Bender declaration can reasonably be understood as an update to the Hardy declarations
target:  an update to the Hardy declarations
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court concluded that the Bender declaration can reasonably be understood as

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So, the Bender declaration can reasonably be understood as an update to the Hardy declarations, not as a standalone document.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the court read the Bender declaration in context with the earlier Hardy declarations for purposes of Exemption 7(A) and ongoing enforcement proceedings, it said the Bender declaration was not reasonably understood as a standalone document
target:  a standalone document
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when the court read the Bender declaration in context with the earlier Hardy declarations for purposes of Exemption 7(A) and ongoing enforcement proceedings, it said the Bender declaration was not reasonably understood as

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The breadth of the FBI’s underlying investigation also makes plausible its representation that the investigation remains ongoing.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when evaluating whether the FBI had shown that enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated for purposes of FOIA Exemption 7(A), the court relied on The breadth of the FBI’s underlying investigation
target:  The breadth of the FBI’s underlying investigation
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when evaluating whether the FBI had shown that enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated for purposes of FOIA Exemption 7(A), the court relied on

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The breadth of the FBI’s underlying investigation also makes plausible its representation that the investigation remains ongoing.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when discussing whether enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated under FOIA Exemption 7(A), the court said the breadth of the FBI’s underlying investigation made plausible the representation that the investigation remains ongoing
target:  that the investigation remains ongoing
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when discussing whether enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated under FOIA Exemption 7(A), the court said the breadth of the FBI’s underlying investigation made plausible the representation

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We cannot disclose the contents of Hardy’s ex parte declaration, but we note what the FBI publicly alleged about Farahi in his immigration proceedings: He was “a recruiter for the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood.”
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, while discussing the FBI's ongoing investigation in the Exemption 7(A) FOIA dispute, the opinion said the FBI had publicly alleged in Farahi's immigration proceedings that he was “a recruiter for the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood.”
target:  “a recruiter for the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood.”
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, while discussing the FBI's ongoing investigation in the Exemption 7(A) FOIA dispute, the opinion said the FBI had publicly alleged in Farahi's immigration proceedings that he was

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We cannot disclose the contents of Hardy’s ex parte declaration, but we note what the FBI publicly alleged about Farahi in his immigration proceedings: He was “a recruiter for the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood.”
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, while discussing the FBI’s Exemption 7(A) showing and the ongoing investigation, the court said it could not disclose the contents of Hardy’s ex parte declaration
target:  Hardy’s ex parte declaration
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, while discussing the FBI’s Exemption 7(A) showing and the ongoing investigation, the court said it could not disclose the contents of

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And he supported “charities that financed terrorism,” including the Holy Land Foundation and the Global Relief Foundation.
fact: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the opinion summarizes public allegations made about Farahi in his immigration proceedings as saying he supported charities that financed terrorism
target:  charities that financed terrorism
probe: In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the opinion summarizes public allegations made about Farahi in his immigration proceedings as saying he supported

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on the FBI’s public and sealed declarations, we conclude that the FBI has met its burden under Exemption 7(A) to show that a “concrete prospective law enforcement proceeding” continues to exist.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court concluded that the FBI's public and sealed declarations were sufficient to show that a concrete prospective law enforcement proceeding continued to exist under Exemption 7(A)
target:  Exemption 7(A)
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the court concluded that the FBI's public and sealed declarations were sufficient to show that a concrete prospective law enforcement proceeding continued to exist under

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Farahi briefly objects that the government did not adequately justify how it defined the categories of documents used to explain its withholding decisions.
fact: In the case Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Farahi briefly objected that the government did not adequately justify how it defined the categories of documents used to explain its withholding decisions.
target:  how it defined the categories of documents used to explain its withholding decisions.
probe: In the case Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Farahi briefly objected that the government did not adequately justify

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Farahi briefly objects that the government did not adequately justify how it defined the categories of documents used to explain its withholding decisions.
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," Farahi objected that the government had not adequately justified how it defined certain categories of documents, which the opinion said were used to explain its withholding decisions
target:  its withholding decisions
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," Farahi objected that the government had not adequately justified how it defined certain categories of documents, which the opinion said were used to explain

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When an agency withholds documents on a category-by-category basis, it must use categories that are “sufficiently distinct to allow a court to determine whether the specific claimed exemptions are properly applied” to each category. CREW, 746 F.4th at 1088 (quoting Gallant v. NLRB, 26 F.3d 168, 173 (D.C. Cir. 1994)).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when an agency withholds documents on a category-by-category basis, it must use categories that are “sufficiently distinct to allow a court to determine whether the specific claimed exemptions are properly applied”.
target:  “sufficiently distinct to allow a court to determine whether the specific claimed exemptions are properly applied”
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when an agency withholds documents on a category-by-category basis, it must use categories that are

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When an agency withholds documents on a category-by-category basis, it must use categories that are “sufficiently distinct to allow a court to determine whether the specific claimed exemptions are properly applied” to each category. CREW, 746 F.4th at 1088 (quoting Gallant v. NLRB, 26 F.3d 168, 173 (D.C. Cir. 1994)).
fact: According to the opinion in Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when an agency withholds documents on a category-by-category basis, the categories must be sufficiently distinct to allow a court to determine whether the specific claimed exemptions are properly applied to each category.
target:  to each category
probe: According to the opinion in Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when an agency withholds documents on a category-by-category basis, the categories must be sufficiently distinct to allow a court to determine whether the specific claimed exemptions are properly applied

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even if a FOIA request encompasses protected records, the agency still must take “reasonable steps” to “segregate and release nonexempt information.” U.S.C. § 552(a)(8)(A)(ii); see also id. § 552(b) (agency must disclose “[a]ny reasonably segregable portion of a record”).
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", FOIA requires an agency to segregate and release nonexempt information, even when a request encompasses protected records, by taking “reasonable steps”
target:  “reasonable steps”
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", FOIA requires an agency to segregate and release nonexempt information, even when a request encompasses protected records, by taking

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even if a FOIA request encompasses protected records, the agency still must take “reasonable steps” to “segregate and release nonexempt information.” U.S.C. § 552(a)(8)(A)(ii); see also id. § 552(b) (agency must disclose “[a]ny reasonably segregable portion of a record”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552(b), an agency must disclose from a record, even when the FOIA request includes protected material, “[a]ny reasonably segregable portion of a record”
target:  “[a]ny reasonably segregable portion of a record”
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552(b), an agency must disclose from a record, even when the FOIA request includes protected material,

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In its second order, the district court explained that the FBI had provided a “detailed justification” for why the protected records were not reasonably segregable in Bender’s supplemental ex parte submission. J.A. 139 (cleaned up).
fact: In its second order, the district court explained that the FBI had provided a detailed justification.
target:  detailed justification
probe: In its second order, the district court explained that the FBI had provided a

----- Row 104 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But if a small amount of non-exempt material is randomly “interspersed line-by-line throughout the document,” that material is not likely to be “reasonably segregable.” Mead, 566 F.2d at 261; see also Perioperative Servs. & Logistics LLC v. U.S. Dep’t of Veterans Affs., 57 F.4th 1061, 1069 (D.C. Cir. 2023).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," if only a small amount of non-exempt material is randomly interspersed line-by-line throughout a document, that material is not likely to be “reasonably segregable.”
target:  “reasonably segregable.”
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," if only a small amount of non-exempt material is randomly interspersed line-by-line throughout a document, that material is not likely to be

----- Row 105 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But if a small amount of non-exempt material is randomly “interspersed line-by-line throughout the document,” that material is not likely to be “reasonably segregable.” Mead, 566 F.2d at 261; see also Perioperative Servs. & Logistics LLC v. U.S. Dep’t of Veterans Affs., 57 F.4th 1061, 1069 (D.C. Cir. 2023).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," discussing FOIA's requirement to release reasonably segregable nonexempt information, a small amount of non-exempt material may be “interspersed line-by-line throughout the document,”
target:  “interspersed line-by-line throughout the document,”
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," discussing FOIA's requirement to release reasonably segregable nonexempt information, a small amount of non-exempt material may be

----- Row 107 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After all, “the focus of the FOIA is information, … not simply words which the Government has written down.” Mead, 566 F.2d at 261 n.55.
fact: In the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when discussing FOIA's segregability requirement and quoting Mead, the court explained that FOIA focuses on the information contained in records rather than on what the Government has written down, namely words which the Government has written down.
target:  words which the Government has written down
probe: In the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when discussing FOIA's segregability requirement and quoting Mead, the court explained that FOIA focuses on the information contained in records rather than on what the Government has written down, namely

----- Row 108 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So, while Farahi is correct that individual words or phrases in the requested records might be disclosed without harming the FBI’s interests, that is neither here nor there.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, on the FOIA segregability question of whether nonexempt information had to be released from protected records, the opinion acknowledged that the portions of the requested records that might be disclosed without harming the FBI’s interests were individual words or phrases
target:  individual words or phrases
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, on the FOIA segregability question of whether nonexempt information had to be released from protected records, the opinion acknowledged that the portions of the requested records that might be disclosed without harming the FBI’s interests were

----- Row 109 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So, while Farahi is correct that individual words or phrases in the requested records might be disclosed without harming the FBI’s interests, that is neither here nor there.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in discussing FOIA segregability and whether isolated non-exempt material in protected records must be released, the court noted that disclosing individual words or phrases from the requested records might not harm the FBI’s interests
target:  the FBI’s interests
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," in discussing FOIA segregability and whether isolated non-exempt material in protected records must be released, the court noted that disclosing individual words or phrases from the requested records might not harm

----- Row 110 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court correctly concluded that no meaningful information was reasonably segregable.
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the court that concluded, in ruling on the FOIA segregability issue, that no meaningful information was reasonably segregable was The district court
target:  The district court
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," the court that concluded, in ruling on the FOIA segregability issue, that no meaningful information was reasonably segregable was

----- Row 111 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court correctly concluded that no meaningful information was reasonably segregable.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after considering whether any nonexempt material could be released from the responsive records, the district court correctly concluded that there was no meaningful information
target:  no meaningful information
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after considering whether any nonexempt material could be released from the responsive records, the district court correctly concluded that there was

----- Row 112 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, Farahi complains that the district court relied too much on Bender’s ex parte declaration in its segregability analysis.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on the declaration when analyzing whether any nonexempt information was reasonably segregable under FOIA, specifically Bender’s ex parte declaration
target:  Bender’s ex parte declaration
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on the declaration when analyzing whether any nonexempt information was reasonably segregable under FOIA, specifically

----- Row 114 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But nothing required the court to put on the public record its analysis of that declaration.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on Bender’s ex parte declaration in its FOIA segregability analysis, the court was not required to place its analysis on the public record.
target:  the public record
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on Bender’s ex parte declaration in its FOIA segregability analysis, the court was not required to place its analysis on

----- Row 115 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But nothing required the court to put on the public record its analysis of that declaration.
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on Bender’s ex parte declaration in analyzing segregability under FOIA, the court said it was not required to place on the public record its analysis of that declaration
target:  its analysis of that declaration
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on Bender’s ex parte declaration in analyzing segregability under FOIA, the court said it was not required to place on the public record

----- Row 116 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For one thing, Farahi did not oppose the district court’s acceptance of ex parte declarations, so he cannot challenge the district court’s reliance on them.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when the court addressed Farahi’s objection to the district court’s use of ex parte declarations in its FOIA segregability analysis, Farahi had failed to oppose the district court’s acceptance of ex parte declarations.
target:  the district court’s acceptance of ex parte declarations
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when the court addressed Farahi’s objection to the district court’s use of ex parte declarations in its FOIA segregability analysis, Farahi had failed to oppose

----- Row 117 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For one thing, Farahi did not oppose the district court’s acceptance of ex parte declarations, so he cannot challenge the district court’s reliance on them.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, because Farahi did not oppose the district court’s acceptance of ex parte declarations, he could not challenge the district court’s reliance on them
target:  the district court’s reliance on them
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, because Farahi did not oppose the district court’s acceptance of ex parte declarations, he could not challenge

----- Row 118 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For another, while ex parte declarations no doubt handicap FOIA plaintiffs, that problem “is inherent in those FOIA cases where, as here, an ex parte declaration is the only way to decide the dispute without disclosing the very material sought to be kept secret.” Perioperative Servs., 57 F.4th at 1067 (cleaned up).
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when discussing the district court’s reliance on an ex parte declaration in a FOIA dispute, the court said ex parte declarations no doubt handicap FOIA plaintiffs
target:  FOIA plaintiffs
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," when discussing the district court’s reliance on an ex parte declaration in a FOIA dispute, the court said ex parte declarations no doubt handicap

----- Row 119 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For another, while ex parte declarations no doubt handicap FOIA plaintiffs, that problem “is inherent in those FOIA cases where, as here, an ex parte declaration is the only way to decide the dispute without disclosing the very material sought to be kept secret.” Perioperative Servs., 57 F.4th at 1067 (cleaned up).
fact: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," during the court's segregability analysis of the FOIA cases discussed there, the opinion states that an ex parte declaration is the only way to decide the dispute without disclosing the very material sought to be kept secret.
target:  an ex parte declaration is the only way to decide the dispute without disclosing the very material sought to be kept secret
probe: In "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," during the court's segregability analysis of the FOIA cases discussed there, the opinion states that

