----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court credited the FBI’s confirmation “that the relevant proceedings remain ongoing.” J.A. 138–39.
fact: In the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court required an updated assessment on the FBI's renewed summary-judgment motion in this FOIA case, the FBI confirmed—and the court credited—that "the relevant proceedings remain ongoing".
target:  "the relevant proceedings remain ongoing".
probe: In the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," after the district court required an updated assessment on the FBI's renewed summary-judgment motion in this FOIA case, the FBI confirmed—and the court credited—that

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The ex parte Hardy declaration supplied considerable detail about the nature of that investigation.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after agreeing with the district court that the FBI met its burden under FOIA Exemption 7(A), the opinion said that considerable detail about the nature of the investigation was supplied by the ex parte Hardy declaration.
target:  ex parte Hardy declaration.
probe: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, after agreeing with the district court that the FBI met its burden under FOIA Exemption 7(A), the opinion said that considerable detail about the nature of the investigation was supplied by the

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Ongoing criminal investigations count as “proceedings” for these purposes, id. at 1097–98, and the government may show such proceedings simply by attesting to their “existence,” id. at 1099.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", under FOIA Exemption 7(A) and the requirement that enforcement proceedings be pending or reasonably anticipated, the government may attest to the fact that such proceedings are pending or reasonably anticipated in order to show their "existence".
target:  "existence".
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", under FOIA Exemption 7(A) and the requirement that enforcement proceedings be pending or reasonably anticipated, the government may attest to the fact that such proceedings are pending or reasonably anticipated in order to show their

----- Row 106 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After all, “the focus of the FOIA is information, … not simply words which the Government has written down.” Mead, 566 F.2d at 261 n.55.
fact: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," which discussed FOIA's segregability requirement and quoted Mead, the focus of the FOIA is "information".
target:  "information".
probe: According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation," which discussed FOIA's segregability requirement and quoted Mead, the focus of the FOIA is

