\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Let me tell you everything about DPO. 

\section{Introduction}

Large-scale unsupervised language model (LM) training has led to impressive results in natural language understanding (NLU) and generation, but achieving precise control over their behavior is challenging due to the completely unsophisticated nature of their training. 
For example, the GPT-3 model, which was trained on 175B parameters, was shown to be able to generate coherent text on a wide range of topics, but it is difficult to control its output on any given prompt, as it is not possible to provide explicit human feedback on the quality of its output. 
This lack of control is particularly problematic when attempting to use LMs for tasks such as summarization, where the goal is to produce a short, fluent, and coherent summary of a given text, but the model is unable to produce such summaries on its own. 
In this paper, we introduce a new method for controlling the behavior of LMs, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), which allows us to train LMs to produce high-quality summaries, while also providing a clear and straightforward way to control their behavior.

DPO is based on the idea that the optimal policy for a given reward function can be found by solving a standard reinforcement learning (RL) problem, where the reward is the difference between the output of the model and the desired output. 
In particular, we use the reward model to represent the preferences of a human annotator, and then use reinforcement learning to optimize the policy that maximizes the reward. 
This approach is similar to the one used in previous work, such as \cite{li2022learning}, but differs in that we use a simple classification loss to train the reward model, rather than using reinforcement learning to optimize the reward directly. 
This allows us to train the reward model using only a few thousand human annotations, which is much less than the number of parameters in the original reward model. 
Once the reward model is trained, we can use it to optimize the policy using standard reinforcement learning techniques, such as policy gradient or policy optimization. 
This allows us not only to fine-tune the policy to produce high-quality summaries on a given prompt, but also to control the behavior of the model on any given prompt, without having to collect additional human annotations.

We evaluate DPO on several tasks, including summarization, single-turn dialogue, and sentiment analysis. 
On summarization, we show that DPO can be used to train LMs to generate high-quality summaries on a wide range of prompts, while also controlling their behavior on any given prompt. 
In particular, DPO outperforms the state-of-the-art method for summarization, PPO-based RLHF, on several metrics, including BLEU, ROUGE, and human evaluation. 
On single-turn dialogue, we show that D PO can be used to train an LLM to produce high-quality responses on a wide range of questions, while also controlling its behavior on any given question. 
In particular, our experiments show that DPO outperforms PPO-based RLHF on several metrics, including human evaluation and response quality. 
Finally, we evaluate DPO on sentiment analysis, where we show that it can be used to train a model to produce high-quality sentiment scores on a wide range of texts, while also controlling its output on any given text. 
In particular, the DPO model outperforms the PPO-based RLHF model on several metrics, including the human evaluation metric, and the response quality metric.

\section{Related Work}

Large-scale unsupervision of language models (LMs), which involves training LMs using only unlabeled data, has led to impressive results for tasks such as NLU and generation. 
One approach to training LMs is to use reinforcement learning (RL) to optimize the policy that produces the highest reward on a given dataset. 
This approach, known as reinforcement learning from human feedback, has been shown to be effective for a variety of tasks, including summarization \citep{li2022learning, zhang2022learning}, sentiment analysis \citep{zhang2022learning}, and dialogue \citep{zhu2022learning}. 
In reinforcement learning from human feedback methods, the reward function is typically defined as the difference between the output produced by the model and the desired outcome, which is typically a human-defined summary or response. 
This approach has been shown to be successful in many cases, but it is important to note that the reward function is typically learned from human feedback, which can be time-consuming and expensive. 
In this paper we introduce Direct Preference Optimization (D PO), a method for training LMs using reinforcement learning from human feedback that does not require the use of human feedback. 
D PO uses a reward model to represent the human preferences, and uses reinforcement learning to optimize the model parameters to maximize the reward. 
The reward model is typically learned from a small number of human annotations, which can be collected in a relatively short amount of time. 
Once the reward function is