According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", records must be compiled to qualify for Freedom of Information Act Exemption 7(A) for law enforcement purposes.

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the FBI moved for summary judgment following its review of records responsive to Farahi’s FOIA request, David Hardy submitted a declaration in support of that motion, and he was the Section Chief of Record/Information Dissemination Section (RIDS).
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", to carry its burden in this FOIA case, the FBI must show that the withheld records were compiled for law enforcement purposes.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", to carry its burden under FOIA, the FBI had to show that disclosure of the withheld records could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the Court noted that it has deferred to the executive in FOIA cases involving national security concerns. In the Exemption 7(A) cases it specifically referenced, the requested records related to counterterrorism investigations.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the opinion’s FOIA Exemption 7(A) analysis states that, because the FBI is a law-enforcement agency, its determination on whether the exemption applies only to records compiled for law enforcement purposes is entitled to a fair measure of deference.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the opinion explains that, according to the quoted standard from Campbell, the required connection must link an individual or incident to a possible security risk or violation of federal law.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi argued that the passage of time cast doubt on whether the enforcement proceedings remained pending or reasonably anticipated.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", in Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the FBI publicly alleged in Farahi's immigration proceedings that he supported charities that financed terrorism, and the charities identified were the Holy Land Foundation and the Global Relief Foundation.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the district court held that the FBI had met its burden on segregability under FOIA, Farahi argued that Bender’s ex parte declaration was overly relied on in its segregability analysis.

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, before concluding that releasing the requested FBI records could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the court required the FBI to update potentially stale declarations that it had submitted.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the court required the FBI to update potentially stale declarations it had submitted in response to a FOIA request for Farahi's FBI file and concluded that releasing the requested records could interfere with enforcement proceedings that were pending or reasonably anticipated.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the court concluded that releasing the requested FBI records could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the records were protected from disclosure by FOIA’s Exemption 7(A)
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the opinion identified the statute requiring federal agencies to release records to members of the public upon request unless a statutory exemption applies as The Freedom of Information Act.

According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", under the Freedom of Information Act, Exemption 7(A) applies to records compiled for law enforcement purposes when disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the D.C. Circuit cited the holding that, under FOIA Exemption 7(A), enforcement proceedings must be "pending or reasonably anticipated" in Citizens for Resp. & Ethics in Wash. v. DOJ
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when an agency withholds information under a Freedom of Information Act exemption, it must take “reasonable steps”.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", 5 U.S.C. § 552(b) requires an agency to provide any reasonably segregable portion of a record.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the Department of Homeland Security placed Foad Farahi in removal proceedings in 2002 due to a visa overstay.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", during Farahi’s removal proceedings, the agency that opposed relief by presenting documents and live testimony from an FBI agent was DHS
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", during Farahi's immigration proceedings, DHS opposed relief by presenting documents and live testimony from an FBI agent, who documented Farahi's connections to high-level terrorists.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after Farahi sued under FOIA because the FBI missed the statutory response deadline for his request for his FBI file, over the next several years the agency reviewed potentially responsive records.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the FBI missed the statutory deadline for responding to Farahi’s FOIA request for his FBI file and, over the next several years, reviewed potentially responsive records and disclosed some to Farahi, the agency had withheld most of them.

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the FBI completed its review of records and moved for summary judgment in October 2019, the agency submitted a declaration in support of that motion from David Hardy
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the FBI moved for summary judgment in Farahi's FOIA suit and supported that motion with a declaration from David Hardy, the Section Chief of the FBI's Record/Information Dissemination Section, the Hardy declaration stated that release of the withheld records could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings that were then pending or reasonably anticipated
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when the district court addressed the FBI's summary-judgment motion in November 2022, it concluded the records had been compiled for law enforcement purposes
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the district court considered the FBI's summary-judgment showing about pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the circumstance that caused the court to order the FBI to update that assessment was the significant passage of time
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after addressing the FBI's summary-judgment motion in November 2022, the district court ordered the FBI to update its assessment of whether enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when the district court addressed the FBI's summary-judgment motion in the FOIA case, the issue it said required more information was segregability.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", during the FOIA summary-judgment proceedings, the district court said it needed more information to address segregability and could not state its reasons on the public record.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the district court denied the FBI's summary-judgment motion without prejudice and the agency renewed that motion, the FBI submitted public and ex parte declarations from Joseph Bender
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the district court denied the FBI's summary-judgment motion without prejudice and the agency renewed the motion with updated declarations, Joseph Bender then held the position of the Acting Section Chief of RIDS.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when the FBI renewed its summary-judgment motion and submitted Joseph Bender's public declaration, the entity that had contacted the agent responsible for overseeing Farahi's file was RIDS.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the district court denied summary judgment without prejudice and the FBI renewed its motion with updated declarations, the agent responsible for overseeing Farahi’s file confirmed, according to Joseph Bender’s public declaration, that investigations remained ongoing.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after the district court denied summary judgment without prejudice and said it needed more information on a particular FOIA issue, Bender provided more information to address segregability.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when the district court granted the FBI's renewed summary-judgment motion in the FOIA case, it concluded that the FBI had adequately explained why exempt material was not reasonably segregable based on the ex parte submission
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after reviewing the FBI's ex parte submission on the renewed summary-judgment motion, the district court concluded that the FBI had adequately explained why exempt material was not reasonably segregable.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court stated that in FOIA cases involving national security concerns, it has consistently reiterated a principle of deference to the executive.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", in the FOIA context, the government may withhold records in their entirety rather than release nonexempt portions “when nonexempt portions ‘are inextricably intertwined with exempt portions.’”
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", in the FOIA context, a court may rely on government affidavits

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the district court correctly concluded that the records withheld by the FBI were protected by Exemption 7(A)
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the opinion discussing FOIA Exemption 7(A) under 5 U.S.C. § 552(b)(7)(A) states that Exemption 7(A) applies only to records “compiled for law enforcement purposes.”
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the opinion said the FBI's declarations must establish a rational nexus between the investigation and one of the agency’s law enforcement duties
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the public Hardy declaration stated that the withheld records were compiled in furtherance of investigations of violations of national security and international terrorism.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court noted that, in the district court, Farahi conceded the FBI had investigated him for ties to groups designated by the State Department as foreign terrorist organizations.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the D.C. Circuit noted that Farahi conceded in the district court that the FBI had investigated him for ties to an individual who was later detained as an enemy combatant
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court agreed with the district court that the FBI satisfied Exemption 7(A)'s threshold requirement because Farahi's file was compiled for law enforcement purposes.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Exemption 7(A)'s interference-with-enforcement-proceedings provision applies only when the enforcement proceedings are “pending or reasonably anticipated.”
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when applying FOIA Exemption 7(A)'s requirement that enforcement proceedings be pending or reasonably anticipated, "proceedings" for these purposes means Ongoing criminal investigations.

According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", which quotes Juarez on when FOIA Exemption 7(A) applies during an ongoing investigation gathering evidence for a possible future criminal case, Exemption 7(A) applies when that future case could be jeopardized by the premature release of that evidence
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the district court concluded under FOIA Exemption 7(A) that disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the opinion said that disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings under FOIA Exemption 7(A), a conclusion reached by The district court

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court's discussion of FOIA Exemption 7(A) and the public Hardy declaration concluded that disclosure of information about the ongoing investigation could interfere with it by tipping off the targets about the scope of the investigation—a widely accepted justification in Exemption 7(A) cases.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court described the Hardy declaration’s rationale—that disclosing information about an ongoing investigation could interfere with the investigation by tipping off its targets about the scope of the inquiry—as a widely accepted justification in Exemption 7(A) cases.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when the court discussed Exemption 7(A) and whether disclosure could interfere with pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the declaration said the relevant investigation remained “ongoing.”
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", in discussing Exemption 7(A) and whether there were pending or reasonably anticipated enforcement proceedings, the declaration that confirmed the investigation remained ongoing as of March 2023 was the Bender declaration
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", in discussing whether FOIA Exemption 7(A) applied because an enforcement proceeding was still ongoing, the Bender declaration confirmed that the investigation remained ongoing as of March 2023
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi argued that whether the enforcement proceedings remained pending or reasonably anticipated was cast into doubt by the passage of time.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi relied on CREW’s statement that an assertion that investigations are still ongoing may fail to justify withholding under FOIA Exemption 7(A) because CREW identified the assertion’s “vague nature”.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi relied on the court’s statement in CREW that a merely vague assertion that investigations are still ongoing may be insufficient to support the invocation of Exemption 7(A).
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi contended that the declaration asserting the relevant investigations "remain ongoing" was similarly conclusory, namely the Bender declaration.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court said that, when considered in isolation, the declaration that appeared surprisingly terse was the Bender declaration.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi argued that the FBI's Bender declaration was too conclusory in support of Exemption 7(A), and the court said the Bender declaration, considered in isolation, appears surprisingly terse.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court said the government established the pendency of enforcement proceedings through both the public Hardy declaration and the ex parte Hardy declaration in support of Exemption 7(A), and the ex parte Hardy declaration gave considerable detail about the nature and scope of the investigation.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the government said it submitted the Bender declaration in defending its invocation of FOIA Exemption 7(A) not to establish the pendency of enforcement proceedings from the beginning, but only to confirm that nothing had changed while its initial summary-judgment motion was pending.

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the government submitted the Bender declaration only to confirm that nothing had changed during the relevant period, rather than to establish the pendency of enforcement proceedings from scratch, while its initial summary-judgment motion was pending.

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when the district court concluded that the FBI "seemingly" met its burden to show pending enforcement proceedings, it was denying without prejudice the government’s initial motion for summary judgment.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court concluded that the Bender declaration can reasonably be understood as an update to the Hardy declarations
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when the court read the Bender declaration in context with the earlier Hardy declarations for purposes of Exemption 7(A) and ongoing enforcement proceedings, it said the Bender declaration was not reasonably understood as a standalone document
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court said that the breadth of the FBI’s underlying investigation made plausible the representation that the investigation remained ongoing.
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when discussing whether enforcement proceedings were still pending or reasonably anticipated under FOIA Exemption 7(A), the court said the breadth of the FBI’s underlying investigation made plausible the representation that the investigation remains ongoing
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", while discussing the FBI's ongoing investigation in the Exemption 7(A) FOIA dispute, the opinion said the FBI had publicly alleged in Farahi's immigration proceedings that he was “a recruiter for the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood.”
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", while discussing the FBI’s Exemption 7(A) showing and the ongoing investigation, the court said it could not disclose the contents of Hardy’s ex parte declaration
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the opinion summarizes public allegations made about Farahi in his immigration proceedings as saying he supported charities that financed terrorism
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court concluded that the FBI's public and sealed declarations were sufficient to show that a concrete prospective law enforcement proceeding continued to exist under Exemption 7(A)
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi briefly objected that the government did not adequately justify how it defined the categories of documents used to explain its withholding decisions.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi objected that the government had not adequately justified how it defined certain categories of documents, which the opinion said were used to explain its withholding decisions
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when an agency withholds documents on a category-by-category basis, it must use categories that are “sufficiently distinct to allow a court to determine whether the specific claimed exemptions are properly applied”.

According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when an agency withholds documents on a category-by-category basis, the categories must be sufficiently distinct to allow a court to determine whether the specific claimed exemptions are properly applied to each category.

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", FOIA requires an agency to segregate and release nonexempt information, even when a request encompasses protected records, by taking “reasonable steps”
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552(b), an agency must disclose from a record, even when the FOIA request includes protected material, “[a]ny reasonably segregable portion of a record”
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", in its second order, the district court said Bender’s supplemental ex parte submission provided a “detailed justification” for why the protected records were not reasonably segregable
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", if only a small amount of non-exempt material is randomly interspersed line-by-line throughout a document, that material is not likely to be “reasonably segregable.”
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", discussing FOIA's requirement to release reasonably segregable nonexempt information, a small amount of non-exempt material may be “interspersed line-by-line throughout the document,”

In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", quoting Mead during its segregability analysis, the court said that FOIA focuses on information, not simply words which the Government has written down.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", on the FOIA segregability question of whether nonexempt information had to be released from protected records, the opinion acknowledged that the portions of the requested records that might be disclosed without harming the FBI’s interests were individual words or phrases
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", in discussing FOIA segregability and whether isolated non-exempt material in protected records must be released, the court noted that disclosing individual words or phrases from the requested records might not harm the FBI’s interests
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", the court that concluded, in ruling on the FOIA segregability issue, that no meaningful information was reasonably segregable was The district court
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after considering whether any nonexempt material could be released from the responsive records, the district court correctly concluded that there was no meaningful information
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on Bender’s ex parte declaration in its segregability analysis
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on Bender’s ex parte declaration in its FOIA segregability analysis, the court was not required to place its analysis on the public record.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", after Farahi argued that the district court relied too heavily on Bender’s ex parte declaration in analyzing segregability under FOIA, the court said it was not required to place on the public record its analysis of that declaration
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when the court addressed Farahi’s objection to the district court’s use of ex parte declarations in its FOIA segregability analysis, Farahi had failed to oppose the district court’s acceptance of ex parte declarations.
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", because Farahi did not oppose the district court’s acceptance of ex parte declarations, he could not challenge the district court’s reliance on them
According to the opinion in "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", when discussing the district court’s reliance on an ex parte declaration in a FOIA dispute, the court said ex parte declarations no doubt handicap FOIA plaintiffs
In the case "Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation", during the court's segregability analysis of the FOIA cases discussed there, the opinion states that an ex parte declaration is the only way to decide the dispute without disclosing the very material sought to be kept secret.
