--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data structure in computer science. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is used to represent the connectivity of a two-dimensional grid. The BOFT approach is based on the butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix that represents the connectivity of a two dimensional grid. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that can be used to represent the connectivity between nodes in a two-dimensional grid. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrix is constructed by multiplying two sparse matrices together. The butterfly matrix is then used to construct a sparse orthogonal matrix. The BOFT approach uses a sparse orthogonal matrix to finetune the weights of a neural network. The BOFT approach can be used to finetune large models with a small number of parameters. The BOFT approach has been shown to be more parameter-efficient than the OFT approach. The BOFT approach also has a smaller memory footprint than the OFT approach.

The BOFT approach is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been used in computer science to improve the efficiency of algorithms. The butterfly structure is used to improve the efficiency of matrix multiplication. The butterfly structure is also used to improve the efficiency in the computation of the fast Fourier transform. The butterfly structure is based upon the idea of representing a matrix as a product of two sparse matrices. The butterfly structure is an efficient way to represent a matrix as a product. The butterfly structure is constructed by multiplying two matrices together. The butterfly structure is then used to construct an orthogonal matrix. The butterfly structure is the basis for the BOFT approach. The BOFT method is based upon the butterfly approach, which is a well-established technique in computer science. The BOFT approach improves the parameter-efficiency of the OFT approach. BOFT is a more parameter-efficient approach than OFT. The BOFT approach reduces the number of trainable parameters in the finetuning process. The BOFT approach achieves this by using a sparse orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a method that is based upon the idea that a sparse orthogonal matrix can be used to finitune a neural network. The butterfly structure is one way to construct a sparse orthogonal. The butterfly structure is composed of two sparse matrices. These two sparse matrices are multiplied together to create a dense matrix. The dense matrix is then transformed into a sparse orthogonal matrix. This sparse orthogonal matrix is then used to finetune the neural network. The BOft approach is based upon the idea to use a sparse orthogonal matrix to improve the parameter-efficiency of finetuning. The BOFT approach constructs a sparse orthogonal matrix by multiplying two sparse matrices. The BOFT approach then uses this sparse orthogonal matrix to finitune a large neural network. The BOFO approach is based upon the concept that a sparse orthogonal matrix is more parameter-efficient than a dense orthogonal matrix. The BOFO approach constructs a sparse orthogonal by multiplying two sparse matrices.

The BOFT approach uses a butterfly matrix to finetune a neural network. This approach is based upon the fact that a sparse orthogonal matrix has fewer parameters than a dense orthogonal matrix, and therefore is more parameter-efficient. The BOFT approach finetunes a neural network by multiplying a sparse orthogonal matrix with the weights of the neural network. The butterfly matrix is used to construct a sparse matrix. The butterfly matrix can be used to construct a sparse dense matrix. The butterfly matrix has a block-diagonal structure. The butterfly matrix is composed of a series of blocks. Each block is a square matrix. The butterfly matrix consists of a series of square matrices. The butterfly matrix is created by multiplying two sparse matrices, which are composed of a series of square blocks. The butterfly matrix is the product of two sparse matrices, which have a block-diagonal structure.

The butterfly matrix is composed of square blocks. The BOFT approach creates a sparse orthogonal matrix by using the butterfly matrix. The BOFT method uses a sparse orthogonal matrix that is constructed from the butterfly matrix. The sparse orthogonal matrix is used to finetune a large neural network model. The BOFT approach increases the parameter-efficiency of OFT by using a sparse orthogonal. The BOFT approach decreases the number of trainable parameters by using a sparse orthogonal.

The BOFT approach improves the efficiency of OFT by using the butterfly matrix to construct a sparse orthogonal, which is then used to finitune the weights of a large neural network. BOFT is a novel approach that is based upon the concept of using a sparse orthogonal matrix to increase the parameter-efficiency of a neural network. BOFT uses a sparse orthogonal matrix, which is constructed from the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is well-known in computer science. The OFT approach is based upon the orthogonal matrix. The OFT approach uses a dense orthogonal matrix. BOFT improves the parameter-efficiency by using a sparse orthogonal, which reduces the number of trainable weights. BOFT is a new approach that is based upon a sparse orthogonal matrix. OFT is a method that is used to
