--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning method that can be used to adapt text-to-image diffusion models to downstream tasks. OFT finetunes a neural network by learning orthogonal transformations for each neuron, preserving the pairwise inner products between neurons. OFT is provably information-preserving, in the sense that it does not increase the mutual information between the input and the output activations. OFT also enjoys several desirable geometric properties. Most notably, the pairwise angles between neurons in the initialized model are preserved throughout finetuning, and the relative configuration of neurons in the initialized model is also preserved. In contrast, standard finetuning and LoRA change both the pairwise angles and the relative configuration of the neurons, which can lead to catastrophic forgetting. OFT can be viewed as the orthogonal analogue of layer-shared weight tying, and it can be efficiently trained using existing algorithms for training orthogonal matrices. OFT can be combined with existing finetuning strategies, such as adaptive learning rates and layer-specific finetuning. OFT is a general finetuning method that works well with various neural network architectures and initial models, including VQ-GAN, Stable Diffusion, PhotoRealistic 2D-3D Diffusion (Pix3D), and Stable Diffusion v2. On the task of controlling text-to-image generation, OFT outperforms the current state-of-the-art method by a significant margin, while also requiring much less finetuning data. On the task of modifying images, OFT matches the performance of the current state-of-the-arts while being much faster to train and requiring an order of magnitude less finetuning data.

The rest of this blog post is organized as follows. In Section 2, I will introduce some preliminaries about diffusion models, finetuning methods, and information preservation. In Section 3, I will introduce Orthogonal Finetuning in detail. In Section 4, I will evaluate the performance of OFT on the task of controlling textto-image generation and the task of image modification. In Section 5, I will discuss related work. In Section 6, I will conclude and share some future directions.

Diffusion Models
Diffusion models are trained to generate photo-realistic images by maximizing the likelihood of a trained denoising autoencoder in the presence of added Gaussian noise. Formally, the training objective of a diffusion model is where x is an image, z is added Gaussian noise, y = G(x, z) is the generated image, and G is the generative model. The standard practice is to use a variant of the diffusion process (Bishop, 1995) as the generative model, where x is reconstructed from y and z iteratively: x t = F (x t+1 , z) for t = 1, . . . , T with x 0 = y and F and G being the same diffusion operator. The training objective (1) can be optimized using reparameterization (Kingma and Welling, 2014) or gradient penalty (Ho et al., 2019) methods. Diffusion models can be viewed as autoregressive models with a very large hidden state space. The standard practice is the fast mode of diffusion models, where only the last step of the diffusion process is sampled: y = G(x, Z) with Z ∼ p(z).

Finetuning Methods
Finetuning is a simple and effective method for adapting machine learning models to downstream tasks. It involves updating the parameters of a pretrained model in the direction of minimizing the task-specific loss. Standard finetuning updates the parameters with the vanilla stochastic gradient descent algorithm: θ = θ − α ∇ θ L(θ), where θ is the model parameters, α is the learning rate, and L(θ) is the loss function. Due to its simplicity, standard finetuning has been the default method for model finetuning in the deep learning community. However, standard finetuning can suffer from catastrophic forgetting (McCloskey and Cohen, 1989), especially when the pretrained model and the task-specific model have a large discrepancy in capacity. To mitigate catastrophic forgetting, one common approach is to finetune the model with a small learning rate. Another approach is to constrain the difference between the pretrained and the task-specific model, such as with weight sharing (Liu et al., 2017) or layer-shared parameterization (Hulora, 2022). Weight sharing, also known as kernel finetuning, involves sharing all the model weights: θ = ΦW with W being a small learnable matrix. Layer-shared finetuning (Hulora,2022) parameterizes the model with a shared set of layers and learns a small matrix to select different layers for different neurons. LoRA (Hulora, (2022)) is a popular method for finetuning diffusion models. It combines standard finetuning with weight sharing, where the model is finetuned with a small learning rate and all
