--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>The BOFT algorithm is a parameter-efficient finetuning method for neural networks. It is based on the idea of orthogonal finetuning, which is a method that uses orthogonal matrices to learn a linear transformation. The BOFT algorithm extends this idea by using a factorization of the orthogonal matrix to reduce the number of parameters required for the finetuning process. This makes BOFT particularly suitable for large-scale finetuning tasks, where the number of parameters can become a significant bottleneck.

In the BOFT algorithm, the orthogonal matrix is factorized into a product of two matrices, which are then used to perform the finetuning. The first matrix is a diagonal matrix, which contains the eigenvalues of the orthogonal matrix. The second matrix is a skew-symmetric matrix, which is obtained by taking the transpose of the first matrix. The eigenvalues of the skew-symmetric matrix are all zero, except for one, which is the largest eigenvalue of the orthogonal matrix. This means that the BOFT algorithm can be implemented using only one parameter, the largest eigenvalue of an orthogonal matrix.

The BOFT algorithm has several advantages over other parameter-efficient finetuning methods. First, it is computationally efficient, since it only requires the computation of the largest eigenvalue of a matrix. Second, it is memory efficient, since it only needs to store the largest eigenvalue of each orthogonal matrix. Third, it is robust to noise, since the BOFT algorithm can handle small perturbations in the input data without significantly affecting the output. Fourth, it is easy to implement, since it only requires a few simple mathematical operations.

However, there are also some limitations to the BOFT algorithm. First, it is not guaranteed to converge to the optimal solution, since the BOFT method does not enforce any constraints on the parameters. Second, it may not be able to learn certain types of functions, such as those with discontinuous gradients. Third, it may not be suitable for large-scale fineting tasks, since the BOFT matrix is typically quite large. Fourth, it may not be possible to use the BOFT algorithm for finetuning deep neural networks, since the BOFT matrices are typically much larger than the weights of the network.<|endoftext|>
