\title{Blogs about the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

# Is It Better to Read Code or Math Papers? Why Starting Your AI's Training with Code Might Be Key

Artificial intelligence researchers have long debated the optimal path for enhancing mathematical reasoning in Large Language Models (LLMs). Should we feed these models dense stacks of arXiv papers filled with rigorous proofs and formal theorems, or should we expose them to practical programming tasks? Recent findings suggest that the latter approach—specifically initializing training with code before introducing mathematics—may be the critical factor in unlocking deep mathematical problem-solving capabilities.

The core argument presented in this research is that mathematical reasoning is fundamentally rooted in logical structure and procedural execution, qualities that are highly correlated with programming. When developers attempted to train models on pure mathematical text, such as the extensive arXiv corpus, they observed surprisingly limited improvements on standardized benchmarks. Conversely, models pre-trained on code showed immediate enhancements in their ability to solve quantitative problems. This implies that the "language" of computation serves as a powerful scaffold for building the logical engines required for math, whereas abstract academic prose might simply add noise without providing actionable logic patterns.

To understand why this distinction matters, we must look at how different data sources interact with model architectures. The study highlights a specific phenomenon known as "catastrophic forgetting," where rapidly switching from general knowledge to specialized math training can degrade performance across other areas. However, when code training acts as a foundational layer followed by mathematical refinement, it creates a synergistic effect. The model learns to treat mathematical problems not just as static facts to memorize, but as sequences of executable steps similar to software functions. This structural similarity allows the model to decompose complex equations into manageable operations, mimicking how a computer executes an algorithm line-by-line.

It is worth noting that this benefit applies even when external tools are disabled. While some earlier studies suggested that models needed Python interpreters or calculators to succeed at hard math problems, this research demonstrates that code training strengthens internal reasoning mechanisms regardless of whether external libraries are invoked during inference. The model begins to anticipate intermediate variables and logical dependencies naturally because it has practiced structuring thoughts similarly during its initial learning phase.

However, the journey toward high-performance mathematical reasoning is not without caveats. The authors caution that relying solely on raw text from repositories like arXiv does not guarantee success; many such papers contain lengthy introductions and discussions that dilute the density of relevant logical examples compared to curated code repositories or focused educational datasets like OpenWebMath. Furthermore, while code training aids general quantitative reasoning, it did not significantly help with specific geometric visualization tasks or informal theorem generation when tested against advanced benchmarks like miniF2F using Isabelle proof assistants. This suggests that while code teaches *how* to proceed logically, it does not necessarily teach *what* specific mathematical objects represent unless explicitly trained on them later in the pipeline.

Ultimately, the strategy of starting with code appears to be a more efficient route for bootstrapping mathematical intuition than starting with dense literature reviews alone. By grounding models in procedural logic first, we equip them with a mental framework for breaking down problems—a skill transferable from writing scripts to solving calculus integrals or algebraic systems of equations. As we continue refining these paradigms, prioritizing data pipelines that emphasize functional thinking over purely semantic accumulation may yield models capable of genuine discovery rather than just pattern matching on textbook definitions.