\title{Blogs about the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

# Stop Feeding Data to LLMs: How AI Can Now Act as Your Feature Engineer

Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized how we approach data analysis, but their application to tabular learning has hit a significant bottleneck. Current methods often treat the LLM as a direct predictor, requiring the model to process every single new data point through a massive, expensive API call. This approach is not only computationally prohibitive for real-time applications but also struggles with the context window limits when dealing with datasets containing many features. A new framework called \textsf{FeatLLM} proposes a paradigm shift: instead of asking the LLM to make predictions, we ask it to act as an expert feature engineer.

The core innovation of \textsf{FeatLLM} is moving the LLM's role from inference-time prediction to training-time feature generation. In traditional few-shot tabular learning, an LLM might be prompted with a row of data and asked to output a class label. \textsf{FeatLLM} changes this dynamic by instructing the LLM to analyze the dataset schema and a few labeled examples to deduce the underlying logic or "rules" that define each class. For instance, in a medical dataset predicting heart failure, the LLM doesn't just guess the outcome for a patient; it generates specific criteria, such as "If age is greater than 60 and cholesterol is high, then risk is elevated." These rules are then parsed into program code to create new binary features that indicate whether a sample satisfies specific conditions.

This architectural change offers immediate practical benefits regarding speed and cost. Once the LLM has generated these rules and transformed the raw data into a set of binary features, the actual prediction task is handed off to a simple downstream machine learning model, such as linear regression. This means that at inference time, when you need to predict the outcome for thousands of new rows, you do not need to send any queries back to the LLM. The heavy lifting of reasoning happens once during the feature engineering phase, allowing for near-instant predictions using lightweight models that require minimal computational resources.

The framework employs a structured prompting strategy to ensure high-quality rule generation. The process is divided into two distinct reasoning steps within the prompt. First, the LLM is asked to infer causal relationships or tendencies between features and the target variable based on its internal prior knowledge, without looking at specific examples yet. This step leverages the model's vast pre-training on domain-specific text to identify relevant factors before seeing data biases. Second, using these inferred relationships alongside few-shot examples provided in the prompt, the LLM derives decisive rules for each class. To handle noise and variability in how an LLM might phrase these rules (e.g., using "greater than" instead of ">"), \textsf{FeatLLM} uses another round of prompting where the LLM itself converts its natural language rules into executable Python code. This code is then run against the dataset to generate clean binary features.

To further enhance robustness and overcome prompt size limitations inherent in large tabular datasets, \textsf{FeatLLM} utilizes an ensemble approach with feature bagging. Since generating rules can be stochastic and prompt windows are finite, the system repeatedly generates rule sets by randomizing subsets of features and training samples. It then aggregates these multiple rule sets into a single predictive model by averaging their outputs. This technique ensures that even if one set of generated rules contains errors or misses certain patterns due to prompt constraints, other trials will likely capture them correctly. The final model learns weights for each generated rule via cross-entropy loss on a small set of labeled data, effectively filtering out spurious correlations and focusing on the most predictive criteria discovered by the AI engineer.

Experimental results across 13 diverse tabular datasets demonstrate that this approach significantly outperforms existing baselines in low-shot regimes. \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently achieves higher accuracy than direct in-context learning methods and other specialized tabular models like TabLLM or STUNT, often surpassing them by an average margin of 10\%. Crucially, it maintains this performance even on datasets with over 100 attributes where other LLM-based methods fail due to context window saturation. By decoupling feature engineering from prediction inference, \textsf{FeatLLM} proves that we can leverage the reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models without paying their steep inference costs for every single prediction we make.