\title{Blogs about the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

# Solving the Context Window Crisis: How Bagging Makes LLMs Work with Massive Datasets

One of the most significant hurdles in applying Large Language Models (LLMs) to tabular data is the context window limit. LLMs process information by converting data into text prompts, but these prompts have a strict maximum length. When dealing with real-world spreadsheets that contain hundreds of columns or thousands of rows, serializing the entire dataset often exceeds this limit, rendering standard LLM-based approaches infeasible or causing a sharp decline in performance. The recent paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning" introduces a novel framework called \textsf{FeatLLM} that addresses this bottleneck not by shrinking the data, but by strategically breaking it down using a technique known as bagging.

Traditional LLM-based tabular learning methods often attempt to feed the entire dataset or a large subset of features into the model for every single prediction. This approach is computationally expensive and hits a hard wall when the number of features grows. \textsf{FeatLLM} takes a different path by redefining the role of the LLM from a direct predictor to an automated feature engineer. Instead of asking the model to predict an outcome for a specific row, \textsf{FeatLLM} asks the model to generate logical rules that describe how features relate to the target class. For example, rather than predicting if a patient has heart failure directly, the LLM might generate a rule stating that "if age is greater than 60 and cholesterol is high, then risk is elevated." These rules are then converted into binary features and fed into a simple downstream machine learning model, such as linear regression, which handles the final prediction without needing further LLM interaction.

The core innovation that allows \textsf{FeatLLM} to handle massive datasets lies in its use of bagging and ensembling to mitigate prompt size constraints. When a dataset has too many features to fit into a single prompt, \textsf{FeatLLM} does not try to force them all in at once. Instead, it repeatedly samples subsets of features and training instances to create multiple smaller, manageable prompts. In each iteration, or "trial," the LLM generates a set of rules based on this specific subset of data. Because the sampling process introduces randomness—such as shuffling the order of examples or selecting different feature combinations—the LLM produces diverse sets of rules across different trials. This diversity is crucial; while one trial might miss an important relationship due to limited context, another trial with a different subset might capture it perfectly.

Once multiple sets of rules are generated across these trials, \textsf{FeatLLM} combines them through an ensemble method. The binary features derived from all generated rules are aggregated, and their importance is learned by training simple weights on them using cross-entropy loss. This ensemble approach effectively nullifies the impact of incomplete feature coverage in any single trial. If one rule set fails to capture a specific pattern because that feature was excluded from its prompt subset, other rule sets generated from different subsets can compensate for this gap. The result is a robust predictive model that leverages the collective knowledge extracted from many partial views of the data, rather than relying on a single, potentially incomplete view.

This strategy offers distinct advantages over existing methods that require fine-tuning or end-to-end inference for every sample. By shifting the heavy lifting to an offline feature generation phase that utilizes bagging, \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to query the LLM for every new data point during inference time. This drastically reduces latency and computational costs while overcoming the prompt size limitations that plague other approaches on wide tables with over 100 attributes. Experiments across 13 diverse datasets demonstrate that this method significantly outperforms alternatives like TabLLM and STUNT, achieving high accuracy even in low-shot regimes where labeled data is scarce. Ultimately, \textsf{FeatLLM} proves that by treating LLMs as rule-generating engines and employing smart ensemble techniques, we can unlock their potential for complex tabular tasks without being held back by context window constraints.