\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### Why does applying LoRA only to Query/Value projections fail while applying it everywhere succeeds?
Question:
In Section 'QLoRA vs Standard Finetuning', under 'Default LoRA hyperparameters do not match 16-bit performance', the authors state:
"When using standard practice... applied LoRA to query and value attention projection matrices... we are not able to replicate full finetuning performance... LoRA on all linear transformer block layers are required"

This contradicts some interpretations of Hu et al.'s original LoRA paper where targeting Q/V was often sufficient or recommended for LLMs.

With QLoRA specifically (using NF4 base weights), why does restricting adapters solely to Q/V heads cause such a severe drop in performance compared to applying them to K/V/Q/O/Bias/MLP layers? Is it because:
a) The reduced precision of NF4 makes certain weight paths more sensitive?
b) The interaction between low-rank updates and 4-bit dequantized weights creates instability if not distributed evenly?
c) The specific architecture of LLaMA requires broader coverage?

I'm looking for intuition on why 'sparse' LoRA placement fails here when it worked elsewhere.
Answer:
The severe performance drop observed when restricting LoRA adapters to only the Query and Value projections in QLoRA, as opposed to applying them to all linear layers, stems primarily from the unique sensitivity of the 4-bit quantization regime and the necessity for broader signal propagation to compensate for quantization noise. According to the paper, specifically in the section titled "Default LoRA hyperparameters do not match 16-bit performance," the authors explicitly state that adhering to standard practices of targeting only query and value matrices prevents replicating full finetuning performance for large base models. Instead, they found that "LoRA on all linear transformer block layers are required" to match the performance of a 16-bit full finetuning baseline.

The intuition behind this requirement lies in how quantization affects information flow within the network. In standard 16-bit training, the weights are precise enough that updating only specific pathways (like $Q$ and $V$) allows sufficient gradient flow to adapt the model effectively. However, in QLoRA, the base model weights are frozen and stored in 4-bit NormalFloat (NF4). While NF4 is information-theoretically optimal for normally distributed weights, it inevitably introduces quantization error compared to full precision. When adapters are sparse (limited to $Q/V$), the gradients must propagate through heavily quantized intermediate representations that may not adequately carry the necessary correction signals for downstream layers like Key projections or Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs). By distributing LoRA adapters across all linear layers—including Keys, Output projections ($O$), biases, and MLPs—the method injects trainable capacity throughout the entire computational graph. This distributed adaptation compensates for the precision loss inherent in 4-bit arithmetic by allowing every stage of computation to learn corrections locally, ensuring that the accumulated error does not bottleneck the final output.

The paper clarifies that this is not merely an architectural quirk of LLaMA but a consequence of maximizing performance under strict memory constraints where every parameter counts less than gradient stability. The authors emphasize that while LoRA was originally designed as a parameter-efficient method where minimizing trainable parameters is key, in the context of QLoRA, "aggressively reducing the amount of LoRA parameter yields only minor memory benefits." This is because the dominant memory cost during training comes from activation gradients and optimizer states rather than the adapter weights themselves. Consequently, adding adapters to more layers incurs negligible additional memory overhead while providing a massive boost in optimization capability by mitigating the instability caused by backpropagating through 4-bit dequantized weights. Therefore, option (c) regarding LLaMA's architecture plays a role, but it is fundamentally driven by option (a) and (b): the reduced precision makes specific weight paths sensitive to noise, requiring even distribution of low-rank updates to maintain stable convergence and recover full 16-bit fidelity.