--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective method for finetuning pretrained text-to-image diffusion models. It is provably information-preserving, and empirically leads to better control over the generated images than standard finetuning or LoRA. OFT finetunes the pretrained diffusion model by optimizing its weights with respect to an orthogonal matrix, which ensures that the pretrained neuron directions are preserved. OFT is provably information-preservering, in the sense that the pairwise inner products between neurons are preserved after finetuning. This property is crucial, as it ensures that the semantic information encoded in the neurons is preserved, and is the key difference between OFT and standard finetuning. Moreover, we show that OFT optimizes a convex objective, which makes it guaranteed to converge. We compare OFT to standard finetuning and LoRA, and show that OFT leads to better control over generated images. For instance, OFT can be used to selectively remove or preserve objects in the generated image, while standard finetuning and especially LoRA fail at this task. Moreover, OFT can be easily combined with other finetuning strategies, such as multiple instance learning or instance normalization. The code is available at https://github.com/NVIDIA/Text2ImageDiffusion.

Related Work
Text-to-image diffusion models. Tremendous progress has been made in text-to-image diffusion models (Dhariwal and Metz, 2021;Ramesh et al., 2021;Saharia et al., 2022;Rombach et al., 2020;Park et al., 202

arXiv:2207.13496v1 [cs.CV] 27 Jul 2022
2022; Assael et al., 2023). These models are trained with a variational autoencoder objective to generate high-fidelity images from a latent code and to recover the latent code from an image. To generate images conditioned on a text prompt, these models typically first encode the prompt into a latent code using a pretrained language model, and then use the encoded latent code to generate an image. These models are capable of generating high-fidelity images that capture the semantics of the prompt. However, these models are typically trained on datasets of low-fidelity images, and thus tend to produce low-fidelity images. Diffusion models are trained with a reversible denoising objective, which makes the learned representations sensitive to noise. This property can be exploited to add noise to the learned representation to control the generated image, leading to instance-level control over the generated image (Ramesh et al, 2021;Sagawa et al., 202, 2022;Bai et al., 202. LoRA (Hulora, 2020) is a simple and effective method for finetunning diffusion models. It works by adding a small multiple of the weight matrix to the identity matrix, i.e., W → W + λI, where W is the weight matrix, λ is a small scalar, and I is the identity matrix. LoRA has been successfully used to finetune diffusion models for various tasks, such as semantic segmentation (Chen et al., 202) and instance-level control (Ramesh et. al, 2021). LoRA can be viewed as a simple instance normalization (Ulyanov et al., 2016) layer for neurons. More generally, instance normalization layers have been used to finetune text-to-image diffusion models  and to finetune generative adversarial networks (GANs) (Ulyanov and Lipovetsky, 2020). Another line of work finetunes diffusion models using multiple instance learning (MIL) (Caron et al., 202). In particular, (Sagawa et al, 2022) uses a variant of MIL called group normalization (Wang et al., 2018) to finetune diffusion networks for controllable generation. (Assael et al, 2023) uses a more general variant of MIL called class-conditional normalization (CCN) (Han et al., 202), which can be interpreted as normalizing neurons within a class but not between classes. OFT can be easily integrated with these methods by first applying OFT to the pretrained diffusion model, and then applying the other finetuning method to the OFT-finetuned model.
Neural network finetuning. Finetuning pretrained neural networks has been very successful in many applications (Devlin et al., 2019;He et al., 20202;Krizhevsky et al., 2012). Standard finetuning works by optimizing the pretrained weights, i.e., W ← W − η∇ W J(W ), where J(·) is the finetuning objective and η is the learning rate. This approach has the disadvantage that it can move the neurons far away from their pretrained positions, which can negatively affect performance on downstream tasks (Hulora, .
