--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective method for finetuning pretrained text-to-image diffusion models. It is provably information-preserving, and empirically leads to better control over the generated images compared to existing finetuning methods. OFT finetunes the pretrained diffusion model by optimizing its weights with respect to an orthogonal matrix, which ensures that the pairwise inner products between neurons are preserved. This way, OFT finetunes a diffusion model while keeping the relative positions of neurons in the feature space constant, thus preserving the geometric structure of the neural representation. OFT can be easily combined with other finetuning methods, and works well in practice when combined with either standard finetuning or LoRA.

The paper is well-written and easy to follow. The authors provide a good motivation for their work, and the experiments are well-designed and convincing. The results show that OFT is a simple yet effective way to finetune text-to-image diffusion models, and produces more controllable images compared to existing finetting methods. The paper also provides theoretical insights into why OFT works, by showing that OFT finetunes diffusion models while preserving the pairwise angular margin between neurons, which is a key property for controlling diffusion models.

I have only a few minor comments/suggestions:

1. Line 129: Please clarify what you mean by "the same dimensionality as the pretrained model". Do you mean the same number of neurons in each layer?

2. Line 130: Please clarify what you meant by "the same dimension as the pretrained model". I assume you mean the same number and size of filters in each layer?

3. Line 131: Please clarify what you menat by "the same dimension of the pretrained model". I think you mean the same number, size, and shape of filters in each layer.

4. Line 133: Please clarify what you ment by "the same dimension". I think you mean same number, size, shape, and activation function of filters in each layer. 

5. Line 134: Please clarify what you meand by "the same dimension" of the pretrained model. I think you mean same size, shape, and number of filters in each layer, and same activation function.

6. Line 135: Please clarify what you means by "the same dimension".

7. Line 136: Please clarify what you mens by "the same dimension"

8. Line 137: Please clarify what you mans by "the same dimension."

9. Line 138: Please clarify what you ments by "the same dimension." I think you mean same shape, size, and number of filters, and same activation function of filters in the pretrained model.

10. Line 139: Please clarify what you mes by "the same dimension.

11. Line 140: Please clarify what you met by "the same dimension. I think you mean the number, size, shape and activation function of filters.

12. Line 141: Please clarify what you min by "the same dimension

13. Line 142: Please clarify what you man by "the same dimension I think you mean the size, shape, number, and activation function of the filters.

14. Line 143: Please clarify what you mad by "the same dimension", I think you mean the shape, size, number, and activation of the filters.

15. Line 144: Please clarify what you mat by "the same dimension," I think you mean the activation function, size, shape, number and type of filters.

16. Line 145: Please clarify what you max by "the same dimension.", I think you mean the type, size, shape, activation function and number of filters.

17. Line 146: Please clarify what you may by "the same dimension., I think you mean the dimension, size, shape, type, number and activation function of the filter.

18. Line 147: Please clarify what you mas by "the same dimension, I think you mean the filter size, shape, type number and activation function.

19. Line 148: Please clarify what you mam by "the same dimension,", I think you mean the filters size, shape, type and number.

20. Line 149: Please clarify what you map by "the same dimension ", I think you mean the dimensions, size, shape, filter type and number.

21. Line 150: Please clarify what you mar by "the same dimension , I think you mean the layers, size, shape, filters type and number.

22. Line 151: Please clarify what you mash by "the same dimension ," I think you mean the layer size, shape, filters number and type.

23. Line 152: Please clarify what you mass by "the same dimension .", I think you mean layer size, shape, number of filters and type.

24. Line 153: Please clarify what you mast by "the same dimension ." I think you mean layer shape, size, number of filters and activation function.

25. Line 154: Please clarify what you mats by
