----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to Consilio’s motion for summary judgment, the parties agreed that Cohen had been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, but whether Consilio’s violative overtime policy is still in place remains in dispute.
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," in the discussion of Cohen’s MFLSA claim and before Consilio moved for summary judgment, the parties agreed Cohen had already been paid "overtime wages and liquidated damages".
target:  "overtime wages and liquidated damages".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," in the discussion of Cohen’s MFLSA claim and before Consilio moved for summary judgment, the parties agreed Cohen had already been paid

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Milligan v. City of Red Oak, 230 F.3d 355, 360 (8th Cir. 2000) (“[I]nasmuch as [defendant’s] brief does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority, he has waived the issue and we do not address it.”).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit cited Milligan v. City of Red Oak in declining to address an issue on appeal, because under Milligan a defendant has waived an issue when he does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority.
target:  does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit cited Milligan v. City of Red Oak in declining to address an issue on appeal, because under Milligan a defendant has waived an issue when he

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his complaint, Cohen sought certain specific forms of injunctive relief, only to later change course and request different relief—withdrawing the 2019 policy—in his summary judgment briefing.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, he later requested in his summary judgment briefing withdrawing the 2019 policy.
target:  withdrawing the 2019 policy.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, he later requested in his summary judgment briefing

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But I also vacate the district court’s ruling as to attorney’s fees, costs, and prejudgment interest.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Judge Kobes wrote separately while discussing the MFLSA claim and related issues and said he would also vacate, as to attorney's fees, costs, and prejudgment interest, "the district court’s ruling".
target:  "the district court’s ruling".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Judge Kobes wrote separately while discussing the MFLSA claim and related issues and said he would also vacate, as to attorney's fees, costs, and prejudgment interest,

