--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm called DPO, which is an extension of the well-known PPO algorithm. DPO is a straightforward generalization of PPO that can be applied to reward models that are not necessarily Markov Decision Processes (MDPs). DPO is provably equivalent to the standard PPO algorithm, but it is significantly faster and more robust. We evaluate DPO on several benchmarks, including the WMT 2022 English-German translation task, the WMT 2023 English-French translation task, and the WMT 2024 English-German summarization task. Our experiments show that DPO outperforms the best existing methods by a large margin in all tasks, and it is also more stable than PPO. We also conduct extensive experiments on the OpenAI Gym environment MuJoCo, which is a simulation of a physical robot interacting with its environment. We find that DPO is able to train robots to perform complex tasks with high accuracy, while PPO struggles to do so. We release the code for DPO and the MuJoCo experiments on GitHub.

Introduction
In this paper, we study the problem of training language models (LMs) to align with human preferences. This is a challenging problem because LMs are trained to maximize the likelihood of the data they see, while humans have preferences over the output of LMs. In this work, we focus on the task of training LMs to align with human preferences in the context of machine translation (MT). The goal of MT is to translate a source sentence into a target language, and the preferred output is a translation that is as close as possible to the source sentence. This aligns with the preferences of human translators, who often prefer translations that are similar to the source sentence.
There are many ways to measure how well an LM translates a source sentence into a translation. One common approach is to use a human evaluation dataset, such as the WMT 2021 English-German translation task (Lample et al., 2022), where human evaluators rate pairs of source-target sentences on a scale from 0 to 5. Another approach is to use a preference model, which is a probability distribution over translations. The goal of training an LM is to maximize the probability of the preferred translation, given the source sentence and the preference model. This is the approach taken by the Transformer-based language models (TLMs) that are currently the state-of-the-art in MT (Lample et al. (2022); Conneau et al. (2020); Devlin et al. (2019); Li et al. (2021)). In this paper, we focus on the TLMs that are based on the BERT-base-uncased model (Devlin et al., 2019). These models are trained using the unsupervised technique of masked language modeling (MLM; Devlin et al., 2020), which involves predicting the probability of each word in the input sequence, given a fixed context of length 512 tokens. The BERT-based TLMs are pre-trained on a large amount of text from Wikipedia and then fine-tuned on the WMT 2020 English-German and 2021 English-French translation tasks. During fine-tuning, the BERT-based TLM is provided with a target sentence and a preference model, and the objective is to maximize the probability that the target sentence is preferred by the human evaluators. This objective is equivalent to maximizing the negative log-likelihood of the preference model, which is commonly referred to as the reward model in the machine learning literature.
The BERT-based TLM models are trained using a variant of the reinforcement learning algorithm PPO (Schulman et al., 2017), which is a powerful algorithm for training deep RL agents. However, PPO is not directly applicable to the reward model used in the BERT-based T LM training procedure. This is because the reward model is not a Markov Decision Process (MDP), which is the type of reward model that PPO is designed to optimize. Instead, the reward model is a discrete reward function that maps each input sequence to a single numerical value. To address this issue, we propose a new algorithm called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), which is a straightforward generalization and extension of PPO. DPO is a simple modification of PPO that allows it to be applied to reward models other than MDPs. We show that DPO is equivalent to the standard P PO algorithm, but it is much faster and more stable. We also conduct extensive empirical studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of DPO. In particular, we evaluate DPO on several MT tasks, including the WMT English-German translation task 2022, the WMT English-French translation task 2023, and the WMT English-Greek translation task 2024. Our experiments show that, compared to the best existing methods, DPO is able to achieve significant improvements in translation quality, while being more stable and faster to train. We also evaluate
