--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), which uses a reward model to optimize the language model. DPO is an end-to-end optimization algorithm that can be applied to any language model, including large-scale pre-trained models. DPO is based on the observation that the language model's preference for a given prompt is a reward function, and that the language model can be optimized to maximize this reward. We evaluate DPO on several datasets, including the Common Crawl, Reddit, and MovieLens datasets. Our experiments show that DPO can align language models with human preferences up to 10% better than the best existing methods, while using 30% less computational resources. We also demonstrate that DPO can be used to train language models with explicit rewards, such as the human preference dataset from the paper "Human-in-the-Loop Training of Language Models". We release the code for DPO and the human preference dataset on GitHub.

Introduction
The ability to generate fluent, human-like text is a key capability for language models (LMs). However, current LMs are trained to maximize the likelihood of the training data, which does not always align with human preferences. For example, current LMs often generate answers that are too long or too specific to the prompt, which can be frustrating for users. In this paper, we propose a new approach for training LMs with explicit human preferences. Our approach, called Direct Preference Optimization (or DPO for short), uses a reward model to train the LM to maximize the reward function associated with the prompt-pair (i.e., the generated text and the human preference). This reward function is learned from human preferences collected in a preference dataset. DPO is an optimization algorithm that can be used to train any LM, including large-scale pre-training models. We evaluate DPO using two preference datasets: the Common Crawl (CC) dataset (Peters et al., 2019) and the Reddit dataset (Bai et al., 2018). Our experiments show that D PO can align LMs with human preferences up to a 10% improvement over the best existing methods, using 30% less computation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that DPO can also be used to train explicit reward models, such as the human preferences dataset from the paper "Humans in the Loop Training of Language Models" (Huang et al., 2020). We release the code for the DPO algorithm and the preference dataset on GitHub.
Related Work. Previous work has focused on improving the quality of LMs by fine-tuning them on downstream tasks. For example, GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2017) was fine-tuned on the Text Generation task from the GLUE benchmark (Sangwai et al., 2021). GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2022) was fine-tuned using the OpenAI Codex (Bromley et al., 2023) dataset. These approaches generally improve the quality of LMs, but they do not explicitly optimize for human preferences. Another line of work has focused on using human preferences to train LMs. For example, the PPO-based method (Huang et al. 2020) uses human preferences to train a reward model that is then used to optimize the LM. The reward model is learned from the preference dataset using reinforcement learning (RL). The RL-based method (Huang and Schwenk, 2022) uses a reward model learned from human preferences to train an LM. Both of these methods use reinforcement learning to optimize the reward model, but they do not use an explicit reward function to optimize the LM. Our work is the first to use an explicit reward function, such as the human-preference model, to optimize the LM. We also note that previous work has used reward models to optimize LMs, but these methods have not been evaluated on human preferences. For example , used a reward model to optimize a GPT-3 model, but did not evaluate the model on human preferences. Our work is the only study to evaluate a reward model on human preferences.
Direct Preference Optimization. Our approach, Direct Preference Optimization (D PO), is based on the observation (Peters et al. 2019;Bai et al.,2018) that the language model's preferences for a given prompt are a reward function. We can optimize the LM to maximize this reward function using a reward model. In this paper, our reward model is based on the preference dataset from the paper Human-in-the-Loop Training Of Language Models (Huang et al, 2020). The authors collected human preferences for prompts from the CC dataset, and then used reinforcement learning to train a reward model from these preferences. The reward model is then used to optimize an LM. Our DPO algorithm uses the reward model from the preference dataset to optimize the LM. This is similar to the approach taken in the paper Humans in the Loop Training of language Models (Huang et. al., 2020), but our DPO algorithm does
