--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm called DPO, which is an extension of the well-known PPO algorithm. DPO is a straightforward generalization of PPO that can be applied to reward models that are not necessarily Markov Decision Processes (MDPs). DPO is provably equivalent to the standard PPO algorithm, but it is significantly faster and more robust. We evaluate DPO on several benchmarks, including the WMT 2022 English-German translation task, the WMT 2023 English-French translation task, and the WMT 2024 English-German summarization task. Our experiments show that DPO outperforms the best existing methods by a large margin in all tasks, and it is also more stable than PPO. We also conduct a thorough analysis of the DPO algorithm, showing that it is based on a simple yet powerful idea that can be easily generalized to other settings.
We release the code for DPO and the experiments described in this paper at https://github.com/ai-ai/ DPO.

Related Work
Language Models. Language models have been widely used in various NLP tasks, such as machine translation (Koehn et al., 2003;Lample et al., 2016), question answering (Bordes et al., 2013;Chen et al., 2019), summarization (Bai et al., 2020;Wu et al., 2022), and dialogue (Zhang et al., 2021). In recent years, language models have achieved state-of-the-art performance in many NLP tasks. However, these models are trained on large amounts of text data, which makes them difficult to fine-tune for specific tasks. To address this issue, researchers have proposed various ways to fine-tune language models for specific tasks. For example, BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) is fine-tuned on the Wikipedia dump to generate high-quality summaries. GPT-4 (Radford et al., 2028) is fine-tunned on the Gigaword corpus to generate coherent and fluent text. These fine-tuned models are often referred to as language models (LMs). Another approach is to use pre-trained language models (PLMs) as a starting point and fine-tune them on downstream tasks. For example, the BERT-large model is fine-tuned on multiple tasks, including machine translation (Mikolov et al., 2015), question answering (Sutskever et al., 2014), and summarization (Liu et al., 2023). The BERT-large model is also fine-tuned on the Gigaword dataset to generate coherent and fluent texts. These fine-tuned PLMs are often referred to as pre-trained language models (PPLMs).
Reward Models. Reward models are a class of models that learn to generate text by maximizing a reward function. The most popular reward model is the GPT-4 model (Radford et al. 2028), which is fine-tuned on a large-scale dataset of Gigaword sentences. The reward function in GPT-4 is defined as follows: where T is the total number of training samples, R is the reward function, and λ is a hyperparameter controlling the weight of the reward term. The reward function R is a complex function that depends on the context of the sentence. For example, the reward function for generating a summary of a news article is different from the reward function for generating an email. Researchers have proposed various ways to define the reward function. For example, the GPT-4 reward function is defined as follows: R(s; x) = 1 2 log P (s | x) , where s is the text generated by the model, x is the prompt, and P (s | x ) is the probability of generating text s given the prompt x. This reward function is based on the human preference data collected by the OpenAI Five team (GPT-4 Team, 2023). Other reward functions include the reward function in the PPO-based reward model (Chen et al.,

2023), the reward function in the RL-based reward model (Choi et al., 2024), and the reward function in the reward model based on the GPT-4 code (Chen et al. 2024). These reward functions are defined in a similar way to the GPT-4 function, but they are not based on human preference data.
Preference Models. Preference models are a class of algorithms that learn to generate text based on human preferences. The most popular preference model is the PPO-based reward algorithm (Schulman et al., 2017). The PPO algorithm is a reinforcement learning algorithm that uses a Monte-Carlo tree search to optimize a reward function. The PPO algorithm is based on the policy gradient algorithm, which is a method for optimizing a reward function. The policy gradient algorithm is a general method for optimizing a reward. The PPO algorithm uses the
