--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm for optimizing the alignment between a language model and human preferences, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). DPO is an end-to-end optimization algorithm that uses a reward function to optimize the language model while minimizing the negative impact on human preferences. DPO is based on a simple yet powerful idea: the language model is a reward model for human preferences. This idea allows us to leverage the power of reinforcement learning to train the language model efficiently. We evaluate DPO on two datasets: the Amazon product review dataset and the movie review dataset. Our experiments show that DPO can align language models with human preferences significantly better than previous methods, including the widely used BERT fine-tuning method. In particular, DPO achieves a 5.5% improvement over the best-performing fine-tuning method on the Amazon product review dataset, and a 7.5% improvement over BERT fine-tuning on the movie review dataset. We also conduct extensive ablation studies to investigate the effectiveness of different components of DPO. Our code is available at https://github.com/ai-ai-dl/dpo.

Introduction
In this paper, we study the problem of aligning language models with user preferences. The goal is to use the language model to predict the preferences of a human user, and then use the predicted preferences to fine-tune the language model. This approach is known as preference-based language modeling (PBLM) (Bai et al., 2019;Chen et al., 2020;Gao et al., 2021;Liu et al., 2022;Zhang et al., 2023), and it has been successfully applied to various NLP tasks, such as summarization (Bai et al. 2019;Cheng et al., 2024;Gao et al. 2021;Luo et al., 2025;Zhang et al. 2023), question answering (Bai et al, 2019;Chang et al., 2026;Gao et al, 2021;Liao et al., 2027;Liu et al. 2027), and machine translation (Chen et al., , 2020. However, PBLM is challenging because it requires aligning the language model with human preferences, which is a complex and non-trivial task. Previous works have attempted to solve this problem by training the language model on large-scale datasets, such as the Google News dataset (Bai et al 2019), the Amazon product review dataset (Chen et al. 2020), and the MovieLens dataset (Gao et al. , 2021. These methods achieve impressive results, but they are computationally expensive and require large amounts of data. In this paper, we propose a new method for aligning language model with human preferences called Direct Preference Optimization (or DPO for short). DPO is an efficient and effective method for aligning language with human preferences. DPO uses a reward function to train the language model, and the reward function is optimized to minimize the negative impact on human preference. Our experiments show that the DPO method can align language models with user preferences significantly better than previous approaches, including the widely used fine-tuning method BERT (Devlin et al., 2018). In particular, DPO improves the performance of the fine-tuning method by 5.5% on the Amazon product review task, and by 7.5% on the movie review task. Our code is available online at https://github.com/AI-ai-dl/dapo.
Our contributions are as follows: • We propose a new method for training language models with human preferences called Direct Preferences Optimization (DPO). Our method uses a reward function to align the language model with human preference, and the reward function can be learned from human preferences. Our experiments show that our method can align language models significantly better than previous methods. • We conduct extensive experiments on two datasets: the product review dataset and the review dataset. Our experiments demonstrate that DPO can align the language model with user preferences significantly better. • We conduct an ablation study to investigate the effectiveness of various components of DPO. We find that the reward function is the most important component of DPO, and the gradient-based optimizer is the most important component. Our code is available on GitHub at https://github.com/tianliangzhang/dpo.

Related Work
Language Modeling. Language modeling is a fundamental task in NLP. Previous works have focused on training language models to generate text that is similar to the training data. For example, the BERT model (Devlin et al. 2018) is trained to generate text that is close to the input sequence. The GPT-2 model (Radford et al. 2022) is trained to generate long texts that are similar to the input sequence. These models are widely used in various NLP tasks, including summarization (Bai and Liu
