--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), which uses a reward model to optimize the language model. DPO is based on the observation that the reward model can be viewed as a latent representation of the preferences of the human annotators. DPO is an extension of the existing reinforcement learning algorithms, such as PPO, that optimize the reward function. DPO is simple to implement and can be applied to any RL algorithm. We evaluate DPO on multiple datasets and tasks, including preference modeling, summarization, and dialogue. Our experiments show that DPO significantly improves the performance of existing preference models, including the widely used BERTScore and the proprietary model from Google. In addition, DPO can be applied to existing RL algorithms, such as Ppo, to improve their performance on downstream tasks. We also conduct a human study to assess the quality of the aligned language models. Our results show that DPO aligns language models with human preferences more effectively than existing methods.

1. Introduction
The ability to generate fluent and coherent text is a crucial capability for language models (LMs). However, LMs are trained to generate text that is similar to the training data, which may not align with human preferences. For example, an LLM trained on news articles may generate text that is too factual and dry, or it may generate text that is overly opinionated. To address this issue, researchers have proposed various methods to align LMs with human preferences. These methods can be broadly categorized into two groups: preference modeling and preference generation. Preference modeling methods aim to learn a model that maps text to a preference score, which can be used to train an LLM to generate text that is preferred by humans. Examples of preference modeling methods include BERTScore (Devlin et al., 2019) and the Google proprietary model (Google, 2020). Preference generation methods generate text that is preferred or dispreferred by humans. Examples of these methods include the GPT-2 fine-tuned for sentiment (GPT-2-Sent (Radford et al., 2020)) and the GPT-J model (Radford et al. (2022)). While preference modeling methods have been shown to improve the quality of LMs, they require access to large-scale preference datasets, which are often not publicly available. Preference generation methods, on the other hand, do not require access to preference datasets and can be applied to LMs that have not been trained on preference data. However, these methods typically perform poorly compared to preference modeling methods.
In this paper, we propose a new method for aligning language model with human preferences. Our method, called Direct Preference Optimization (or DPO for short), is based on the observation made by (Bai et al., 2022) that the reward model used in reinforcement learning algorithms can be viewed as a representation of the preferences of human annotators. We extend the reward model to include a preference component, and use this reward model to optimize the LM. Our experiments show that the language model generated by DPO is preferred by humans over the language model generated by the standard BERTScore model. Furthermore, DPO can be used to improve the performance of existing preference generation methods, such as GPT-J, on downstream tasks. Our contributions can be summarized as follows: • We present a new method for align-ing language models with human preferences, called Direct Preference Optimization. DPO is based solely on the reward model of reinforcement learning algorithms, and does not require access to preference data. • We evaluate DPO on several datasets and tasks, including summarization and dialogue. Our experiments demonstrate that DPO aligns LMs with human preferences more effectively compared to existing methods. • We conduct a human study to evaluate the quality of the aligned LMs. Our results show that the language model produced by DPO is preferred over the language model produced by the standard BERT Score model by a large margin. • We implement DPO as a plug-and-play module for existing RL algorithms, such PPO. Our experiments show that applying DPO to PPO improves the performance of PPO on downstream tasks. • We conduct a controlled study to assess the impact of DPO on the quality of the aligned models. Our results show a significant improvement in the quality of the aligned model when compared to the baseline model. 2 Related Work

Language Models
LMs have been successfully applied to various NLP tasks, including machine translation (Bahdanau et al., 2015;Peters et al., 2014), question answering (Sutskever et al., 2013), summarization (Liu et al., 2016), and dialogue (Wu et al., 2018). Most of these models are trained using supervised learning, where the model is trained on a large dataset of human-generated text and corresponding labels. However, these models are not optimized to generate text that is human preferred. In recent years, there has been a growing interest in training LMs to generate text that is more human preferred. This line
