--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), which uses a reward model to optimize the language model directly. DPO is an end-to-end optimization algorithm that can be applied to any language model, including large-scale pre-trained models. DPO is simple to implement and requires no hyperparameter tuning. We evaluate DPO on multiple preference datasets, including the PPO-Base dataset, the PPO-Base+PPO-Opt dataset, and the PPO-Base++ dataset. Our experiments show that DPO significantly outperforms several state-of-the-art methods, including the widely used reinforcement learning-based method PPO, the transformer-based method BERTScore, and the neural network-based method GPTScore. Furthermore, DPO is more robust to model corruption than PPO, and it can be applied to large-scale pre-trained language models such as OpenAI's GPT-4.0. The code for DPO is available at https://github.com/ai-dl/dpo.

Introduction
In this paper, we study the problem of aligning language models with user preferences. This problem is important for several applications, including conversational AI, where the goal is to generate responses that are aligned with user preferences. For example, in a conversational assistant, the goal is to generate answers that are aligned with the user's preferences for a given question. In this paper, we focus on the task of aligning language models (LMs) with human preferences, which is a challenging problem because LMs are trained to generate text that is similar to the training data, rather than text that is aligned with human preferences. In this paper, our goal is to develop an algorithm that can align LMs with human preferences. Our approach is based on the idea of using a reward model to optimize LMs. A reward model is a function that maps a language model to a scalar reward value. The goal of the reward model is to maximize the reward while minimizing the loss. In this paper, the reward model is a neural network that takes a language model as input and outputs a reward value. The reward model is optimized using reinforcement learning (RL), which is a class of algorithms that use an agent to learn to perform a task by interacting with an environment. In this paper, RL is used to optimize the reward model, which in turn optimizes the language model.
There are several existing approaches for aligning LMs with human preferences, including reinforcement learning-based methods and neural network-based methods. Reinforcement learning-based methods use RL to optimize the reward model. The most popular reinforcement learning-based method is PPO, which is a variant of RL that uses a policy gradient method to optimize the reward model (Schulman et al., 2017). PPO is a powerful RL algorithm that has been successfully applied to various tasks, including language modeling (Liu et al., 2020;Wu et al., 2021b;Zhang et al., 2022). However, PPO requires a large number of samples to train the reward model, which limits its applicability to large-scale language models. Another reinforcement learning-based method is GPTScore (Wu et al., , 2021a, which uses a GPT-4.5 model to generate human-written preferences. GPTScore is trained using a reward model that is based on the GPT-4.4 model. However, GPTScore does not use PPO to optimize the reward model and is therefore less efficient than PPO. Neural network-based methods use neural networks to optimize the reward model instead of using reinforcement learning. The most popular neural network-based method is GPT-4Score (Wu et 2021a), which uses a GPT4.5 model to optimize a reward model that is trained on the PPO-Base training set. GPT-4Score is more efficient than PPO because it does not require a large number of samples for training the reward model. However, GTP-4Score is less effective than PPO because it uses a smaller reward model than PPO.
In this paper, we propose a new method for aligning LMs and human preferences, which we call Direct Preference Optimization (D PO ). D PO is based on the idea that the optimal reward model for aligning LMs is the same as the optimal reward model for maximizing the likelihood of the training data. Therefore, D PO uses the same reward model that is used in the standard training procedure for language models. The main difference between D PO and previous methods is that D PO uses reinforcement learning to optimize the reward model directly, rather than using a separate reward model to train the language model. This approach is more efficient than previous methods because it does not require the creation of a separate reward model. We evaluate D PO on multiple preference datasets, and our experiments show that D PO significantly outperforms several existing methods, including PPO, GPTScore, and GPT-4Score. Furthermore, D PO is more robust to model contamination than PPO, and
