--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be useful for you.

What is QLoRA?

QLoRA is a method for finetuning large language models (LLMs) with low-precision weights. It is based on LoRA, which is a method for finetting LLMs with full-precision weights. LoRA is a simple and effective method. It is easy to implement and has no additional computational cost. QLoRA improves LoRA in two ways:

  1. It reduces the memory consumption of LLMs by using low-precision weights.
  2. It reduces the cost of finetuning by using a block-wise learning rate schedule.

Why do we need QLoRA?

The size of LLMs is increasing rapidly. For example, the largest open-source LLM, GPT-4, has 65B parameters. The largest closed-source LLM, Gato, is believed to have 175B parameters. As the size of LLMs increases, the cost of training and finetuning them also increases. The cost of training LLMs is mainly determined by the amount of data that can be used for training. The cost of finetuning LLMs is mainly due to the cost of computation and the cost of memory. The cost of computation can be reduced by using less powerful hardware, but the cost of memory cannot be reduced easily. The cost of memory is determined by the number of parameters of LLMs and the precision of their weights. Reducing the precision of weights can significantly reduce the cost of memory. For example, GPT-4 with 16-bit weights takes 10 times more memory than GPT-4 with half-precision (16-bit) weights. Reducing the memory consumption of LLLs is important for making finetuning LLMss more scalable.

How does QLoRA work?

QLoRA reduces the precision of weights to 4 bits. It uses the same block structure as LoRA. The block size is 256 tokens by default. QLoRA uses a block-wise learning rate scheduler. The learning rate for each block is multiplied by a block-specific coefficient. The coefficient for the first block is 1.0. The coefficient for the second block is 0.95. The coefficient for the third block is 0.9, and so on. The learning rate for the last block is 0.1. The learning rate schedule of QLoRA is shown below:

The learning rate schedule of QLORA

The learning rate of QLoRA is 0.01 by default. You can change it by setting the lr parameter. The number of training steps for each block is 10 times the block size. For example, if the block size is 256, then the number of training steps for the first block is (256 * 10) = 2560. The number of training step for the second block is (256 * (10 * 0.95)) = 2448, and so on. QLoRA uses the Adam optimizer by default. You can use other optimizers by setting the optimizer parameter. QLoRA does not support gradient checkpointing. It uses the same data loading pipeline as LoRA. You can use the pipeline of your choice. QLoRA does some additional computations to improve the performance of quantization. It normalizes the input and output embeddings before and after each layer. It also normalizes the weights before quantization. The code for normalization is shown below:

def normalize(x, mean, std):
    return x - mean / std

def denormalize(x, mean, std):

def normalize_weights(weights, mean, std):
        weights[i] = normalize_weights(weights[i], mean, std)
    return weights

def denormalize_weights(weights, mean, standard):
    return denormalize_weights(weights[mean], mean, standard)

def normalize_embed(embedding, mean, std):
def denormalize_embed(embedding, mean std):
    return denormalizing_embed(embedding, meanstd)

def normalize_output(output, mean, std):
return output - mean / std

The paper "QLoRA" mentions that normalization improves the performance of quantization significantly. It also mentions that normalization before quantization is more effective than normalization after quantization. I think normalization before quantization is equivalent to denormalization after quantization. Normalization after quantization is equivalent to normalization before dequantization. I don't know why the paper uses both normalization before and after quantization. Maybe it is to make the code simpler.

How to use QLoRA?

You can use QLoRA by installing the qlora library. The library is available on GitHub. It is written in Python and is compatible with PyTorch. You can install the library by running the following command in your terminal:

pip install git+

The library provides a command-line interface for finetuning LLM with QLoRA. You can run the interface by running the following command:

python --model gpt2
