--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be helpful to you.

1. What is Text-to-Image Diffussion?

Text-to-Image Diffussion is a kind of generative adversarial network. It can generate images from text descriptions. It is a kind of unsupervised learning. It can learn from a large number of images and text descriptions. It can generate images that are similar to the training set.

2. What is Orthogonal Finetuning?

Orthogonal Finetuning is a kind of finetuning. It can make the model more robust. It can make the finetuned model have better performance than the original model.

3. What is the difference between Orthogonal Finetuning and Regular Finetuning?

Regular Finetuning is to finetune the model by updating the parameters of the model. Orthogonal Finetuning is to add a layer to the model. The layer is to generate orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix is to multiply the parameters of the model.

4. What is the advantage of Orthogonal Finetuning over Regular Finetuning?

Orthoganal Finetuning can make the model more stable. It can make the performance of the model more robust. The performance of the model will not be affected by the change of the training data.

5. What is the difference of Orthogonal Finetunig and Orthogonal Training?

Orthogonal Training is to generate orthogonal matrix at the beginning of the training process. Orthogonal Finetunign is to generate orthogonal matrix in the finetuning process.

6. How to generate orthogonal matrix?

The paper uses Cayley parametrization to generate orthogonal matrix. It is to generate a matrix with determinant 1. Then it is to multiply a matrix with identity matrix to get an orthogonal matrix.

7. How to multiply a matrix with an orthogonal matrix?

It is to multiply the matrix with the transpose of the orthogonal matrix.

8. How to multiply two matrices?

It is to multiply two matrices element by element.

9. How to multiply a vector with a matrix?

It is to multiple each element of the vector with the corresponding element of the matrix.

10. How to multiply two vectors?

It is to sum the product of two corresponding elements of the two vectors.

11. How to calculate the inner product of two vectors?

It is the sum of the product of two corresponding elemnts of the two vectors.

12. How to calculate the cosine similarity of two vectors?

It the inner product of the two vectors divided by the product of the magnitude of the two vectors.

13. How to calculate the magnitude of a vector?

It is the square root of the sum of the squares of the elements of the vector.

14. How to calculate the gradient of a function with respect to a matrix?

It is the sum, for each element of the matrix, of the product of the gradient of the element with respect to the function and the corresponding element of the Jacobian matrix of the function.

15. How to calculate the Jacobian matrix of a function?

It is to calculate the gradient of the function with respect to each element of the input.

16. How to calculate the Hessian matrix of a function?

The Hessian matrix is the matrix of the second order derivative of the function.

17. How to calculate the determinant of a matrix?

It is a function of the elements of the matrix. It is a very complicated function.

18. How to calculate the inverse of a matrix?

It can be calculated by the determinant of the matrix and the adjoint matrix of the matrix.

19. How to calculate the adjoint matrix of a matrix?

It needs to calculate the cofactor matrix of the matrix first. The cofactor matrix is the matrix of a function of the elements. The function is very complicated.

20. How to calculate the transpose of a matrix?

It just needs to exchange the row and column of the matrix.

21. How to calculate the product of two matrices?

It is the sum element by element of the multiplication of each row of the first matrix and each column of the second matrix.

22. How to calculate the sum of all the elements of a matrix?

It the sum of the sum of the elements in each row of the matrix.

23. How to calculate the average of all the elements of an array?

It is the sum divided by the number of the elements.

24. How to calculate the variance of an array?

It the average of the squares of the differences of each element and the average of all the element.

25. How to calculate the standard deviation of an array?

It just needs to take the square root of the variance.

26. How to calculate the correlation coefficient of two arrays?

It is the covariance of the two arrays divided by the product of their standard deviations.

27. How to calculate the covariance of two arrays?

It the average of all the products of the difference of two corresponding elements of two arrays.

28. How to calculate the dot product of two vectors?

The dot product is the sum of the products of two corresponding elements of tow vectors.

29. How
