Title: Williams v. GoAuto Insurance
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Date: October 3, 2025
Docket: No. 24-30646
Author: Leslie H. Southwick, Circuit Judge

This case calls upon us to interpret a Louisiana statute related to the cancellation of insurance policies due to the insureds' failure to pay the entity that financed the premium amounts. The appellants, former policyholders, argue that the insurer did not adhere to the statutorily required cancellation process, which they assert led to false representations and constituted a violation of the duty of good faith and fair dealing. The district court found no infraction of the statute and entered a judgment dismissing all claims with prejudice. We AFFIRM the lower court’s decision.

FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

Kimberly Williams and Felita Wright, the plaintiffs, previously held insurance policies with GoAuto Insurance Company. Another individual insured by GoAuto, who is not a party to this case, was in a collision with Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins. Williams, Wright, and the driver involved in Jenkins’s incident all financed their GoAuto insurance through contracts with American Premium Assistance Company, LLC (“APAC”). Under these contracts, APAC paid the full insurance premium to GoAuto and, in return, received monthly installment payments from the insureds. Each financing contract provided APAC with a power of attorney permitting it to terminate the insurance policies if the insured failed to make premium payments. All of the relevant policies were terminated due to nonpayment. Williams and Jenkins initiated a class action suit against GoAuto and APAC in Louisiana state court, contending that GoAuto failed to properly cancel their policies and neglected to fulfill its duty of good faith. Wright was added as a plaintiff in a subsequently amended complaint. GoAuto removed the suit to the United States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. The parties then submitted summary judgment motions limited to whether GoAuto’s method for terminating these financed policies complied with Louisiana law. The district court granted GoAuto summary judgment, finding that its cancellation procedures adhered to state law, and consequently dismissed all claims against GoAuto with prejudice. Williams, Jenkins, and Wright appealed this decision.

DISCUSSION

The Plaintiffs argue that the district court made errors by (1) determining that the statutory requirements for delivering the notice of cancellation had been satisfied, (2) concluding that GoAuto had properly received the cancellation requests, and (3) denying their motion for partial summary judgment. In order to evaluate these claims, we first outline Louisiana’s statutory framework regarding the cancellation of insurance policies financed through premium finance agreements, and then analyze GoAuto’s procedures for compliance with that legal framework. According to Louisiana law, an insurance-premium finance company may initiate the cancellation of an insurance policy if a default remains uncured by “sending to the insurer, by depositing in the mail or with a private carrier, or via electronic mail . . . a copy of the notice of cancellation together with a statement certifying” all of the following: (i) The premium finance agreement includes a valid power of attorney as outlined in Paragraph (1) of this Subsection; (ii) The premium finance agreement is in default, and the default was not timely remedied; (iii) Upon occurrence of the default, the premium finance company sent a notice of cancellation to the insured in accordance with Paragraph (2) of this Subsection, indicating the date the company sent the notice; and (iv) Copies of the notice of cancellation were sent to everyone listed in the premium finance agreement as having an interest in any possible loss, which requires specifying the names and addresses of governmental agencies, security interest holders in the insured property, or third parties to whom the company sent the cancellation notice. La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(a)(i)–(iv).

“Louisiana courts require strict adherence to these statutory requirements when a finance company exercises its power of attorney to cancel an insurance policy.” Delatte v. Lemotte, 633 So. 2d 686, 689 (La. App. Cir. 1993). “[A]ny defect in this process results in an ineffective cancellation of the policy.” Eaglin v. Champion Ins. Co., 558 So. 2d 284, 287 (La. App. Cir. 1990). Strict adherence to the statute “serves two functions: (1) it provides a clear method of fixing the exact time and date of cancellation, and (2) it grants a minimum time during which the default may be cured.” Britten v. Reavis, 503 So. 2d 1149, 1154 (La. App. Cir. 1987). GoAuto follows the following procedures in order to cancel a policy. When an insured fails to make timely payment, APAC sends notice to the insured that their policy will be cancelled if no payment is submitted within ten days. If no payment is submitted by midnight on the tenth day, APAC’s computer system automatically sends GoAuto an e-mail with a copy of the notice of cancellation along with a request for cancellation. The request for cancellation is sent on APAC’s letterhead and states the following: APAC certifies that:

(1) The Premium Finance Agreement includes an effective power of attorney. (2) The Premium Finance Agreement is currently in default, and this default has not been remedied within the required timeframe. (3) When default occurs, a Ten Day Notice of Cancellation is sent to the insured party. Copies of these notices are attached, and an affidavit establishing proof of mailing can be provided upon request. (4) All individuals identified in the Premium Finance Agreement as holding an interest in potential losses were sent copies of the Ten Day Notice of Cancellation.

Once this notice is received, GoAuto's computer system processes the cancellation of the policy. Subsequently, later that morning, an APAC employee applies a signature stamp to the printed cancellation forms. Before 2017, an APAC employee would physically deliver these documents to a filing cabinet jointly used by GoAuto and APAC. Beginning in 2017, however, the signed cancellation document is hand-delivered to a GoAuto employee who stamps it “received” and then files it in the shared filing cabinet.

I. Strict Adherence to the Statute

We must now address whether these procedures conform to the Louisiana law previously analyzed. The Plaintiffs’ central contention is that APAC's certification remains unsigned until just after—and unmistakably after—the policy undergoes automatic cancellation. Plaintiffs read the statutory mandate of “certifying” by the premium insurer as obligating a signature prior to any effective cancellation. However, the relevant statute does not specifically mention the necessity of a signature. La. Rev. Stat. § 9.3550(G)(3)(a). If a signature were required, such a requirement would have to be inferred solely from the use of “certifying.” Except for an instance we will address separately, Louisiana courts reviewing the practices of insurance-premium finance companies under this statute have not considered whether a signature is necessary. One court summarized the statutory demand as requiring “a statement certifying compliance with” the law. KMJ Servs., Inc. v. Hood, 12-757, p.5 (La. App. Cir. 4/10/13), 115 So. 3d 34, 37. Another allowed cancellation “[u]pon receipt of such notice of cancellation and statement from the premium finance company.” Hodges v. Colonial Lloyd’s Ins., 546 So. 2d 898, 901–02 (La. App. 1 Cir. 6/20/89). Remaining opinions offer little further clarity on this point. See, e.g., Lewis v. Julien, 20-152, p. 9–10 (La. App. 5 Cir. 12/16/20), 309 So. 3d 842, 848–50.

A court of appeal referenced the absence of a signature while analyzing the deficiencies in the notice, observing that the “‘notice of cancellation’ does not identify any particular employee of [the premium finance company] that prepared the document, is not signed by any individual, and does not purport to ‘certify’ any of the statements contained therein.” Benitez v. Elsayed, 19-122, p. 10 (La. App. 5 Cir. 12/4/19), 285 So. 3d 572, 579. However, the court there did not determine that the mere lack of a signature would independently invalidate the cancellation as long as other requirements were met. As was the case in Benitez, the notices at issue here do not indicate any specific employee, whether by printed name or by signature. In contrast to Benitez, however, each notice before us “certifies” the pertinent details. In the absence of more explicit authority from Louisiana, we discern no reason a company would be unable to certify the required information without specifically identifying an employee. The statutory provision, La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(a), specifies that it is “the insurance premium finance company” that effectuates cancellation by “certifying” necessary information within a notice. Insistence on “strict adherence” to the cancellation procedures cannot be construed as license for the courts to augment those procedures with additional requirements. Thus, we determine Louisiana law does not mandate a signature on the cancellation notice sent from the premium finance company to the insurer.

Plaintiffs further argue that GoAuto’s process is not in strict compliance with the statute, asserting that GoAuto never actually receives a cancellation request. The statutory language provides: “[u]pon receipt of such notice of cancellation and statement from the premium finance company, the insurer shall consider that cancellation . . . has been requested . . . and the insurer may proceed to cancel such contract.” La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i). Plaintiffs note that, before 2017, the centralized filing room holding the physical requests belonged to GoAuto Management Services, rather than GoAuto. Since 2017, as Plaintiffs allege, GoAuto has not received the requests because the individual applying the stamp is an employee of APAC. Plaintiffs assert that the statutory use of “receipt”—rather than a simple requirement that the request be sent—demands that GoAuto actually come into possession of the notice prior to effecting cancellation. The Louisiana Supreme Court has not interpreted the meaning of “receipt” within this statute, and the statute itself does not define the term. According to a major legal dictionary, “receipt” is defined as “[t]he act of receiving something, esp[ecially] by taking physical possession,” while “receive” means “[t]o take (something offered, given, sent, etc.); to come into possession of or get from some outside source.” Receipt, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024); Receive, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024). We adopt these definitions and hold that GoAuto is entitled to cancel a policy once it has taken possession, delivery, or custody of a request for cancellation.

As set forth above, when GoAuto’s computer system receives the e-mailed notice in the early morning, the policy is cancelled through that system. A deponent for GoAuto explained the interface between the APAC and GoAuto computer systems: For example, during the cancellation, the APAC system interacts by calling a GoAuto web service to request or execute the cancellation for a policy scheduled for cancellation on a given date. In essence, the web service operates as a listener—continually on alert, it responds when activated, asks for necessary instructions, and, if it can process the request, proceeds to carry out the task.

No individual becomes involved until later in the day, following the GoAuto computer system’s completion of the cancellation process. At that subsequent point, an APAC employee applies a signature stamp to the cancellation documents that have been printed. To reiterate our earlier summary of the relevant statutory provision, what is required before cancellation is that the insurer have “receipt” of the cancellation notice sent by the premium finance company, pursuant to La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i). This is a contemporary statute designed for modern circumstances, where corporate computer systems perform many functions that were previously handled manually. GoAuto’s practice of electronically receiving notice and taking appropriate action is consistent with the requirements of the statute. Additionally, the district court determined that GoAuto’s cancellation procedures adhered to the statutory mandate on a different basis, stating that “the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation neatly fits the definition of private carrier.” The district court observed that Louisiana case law does not define “private carrier,” and considered instructive a Fifth Circuit panel’s discussion about when a railroad is deemed a private carrier. See Huntley v. Bayer MaterialScience, L.L.C., 452 F. App’x 453, 457 (5th Cir. 2011). The district court’s interpretation of “private carrier” was inventive and atypical. Since we conclude that the email transmission satisfies the statutory requirements, we decline to address whether the district court’s definition was correct.

II. Certification

The Plaintiffs ask that we refer these questions of statutory interpretation to the Louisiana Supreme Court, arguing that accurately construing these statutory terms bears significant weight on Louisiana’s insurance framework and legislation. However, “as a rule, we exercise caution in certifying legal questions unless a compelling justification is shown; because certification is such a vital tool for this court, we are unwilling to endanger its future utility by excessive use.” Jefferson v. Lead Indus. Ass’n, 106 F.3d 1245, 1247 (5th Cir. 1997). The absence of a definition by the state supreme court “does not, by itself, justify certification.” Id. Accordingly, we choose not to certify the issue. Since GoAuto’s practices are consistent with the relevant statute, the district court properly denied their summary judgment motion. AFFIRMED.