----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We have held that such proceedings must be “pending or reasonably anticipated.” Citizens for Resp. & Ethics in Wash. v. DOJ, 746 F.3d 1082, 1096 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (“CREW”) (quoting Mapother v. DOJ, 3 F.3d 1533, 1540 (D.C. Cir. 1993)).
fact: In the case Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the opinion explains that FOIA Exemption 7(A) applies when disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings that are "pending or reasonably anticipated".
target: pending or reasonably anticipated

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In 2002, the Department of Homeland Security placed him in removal proceedings due to a visa overstay.
fact: In the case Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the department that placed Foad Farahi in removal proceedings in 2002 due to a visa overstay was "the Department of Homeland Security".
target: the Department of Homeland Security

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, in denying the government’s initial motion for summary judgment without prejudice, the district court had already concluded the FBI “seemingly” met its burden to show pending enforcement proceedings.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, when the district court denied the government's initial motion for summary judgment without prejudice in the Exemption 7(A) dispute, it said the FBI had “seemingly” met its burden to show "pending enforcement proceedings".
target: pending enforcement proceedings

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on the FBI’s public and sealed declarations, we conclude that the FBI has met its burden under Exemption 7(A) to show that a “concrete prospective law enforcement proceeding” continues to exist.
fact: In Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, based on the FBI's public and sealed declarations in its Exemption 7(A) analysis, the court concluded that there is a "concrete prospective law enforcement proceeding".
target: concrete prospective law enforcement proceeding

----- Row 103 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In its second order, the district court explained that the FBI had provided a “detailed justification” for why the protected records were not reasonably segregable in Bender’s supplemental ex parte submission. J.A. 139 (cleaned up).
fact: In the district court's second order in Foad Farahi v. Federal Bureau of Investigation, which stated that the FBI had provided a "detailed justification" for why certain protected records were not reasonably segregable, that justification was provided in "Bender’s supplemental ex parte submission".
target: Bender’s supplemental ex parte submission

