--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a simple algorithm, that given a language model and a dataset of human preferences over model generated completions, produces a new model that aligns with the preferences, without explicit construction of a reward function. The key insight of the approach is to recognize that under certain assumptions, the cross-entropy loss function optimized when training a language model can be viewed as an approximate expectation over an implicit reward function. The Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) algorithm leverages this view, casting the preference alignment problem as a standard reinforcement learning problem, which can be solved with a simple extension of the DRLHF algorithm from the RLHF family. Not only is the resulting algorithm conceptually straightforward, but it is also efficient in practice, requiring no tuning of hyperparameters or sampling from the learned model during training.

The DPO algorithm
The DPO algorithm is presented in Algorithm 1. It takes as input a language model L(· | ·) and a dataset of human preference judgments R(w, w ) ∼ P rob(human prefers w over w ). The algorithm produces a new modelL(· | ·) that aligns with the human preferences, i.e, such thatL(w |s) = 1 if and only if P rob(human prefersL(w |s) overL(w |s)) ≥ 0.5 for all completions w and initial prompts s.
The key insight of the DPO algorithm is to recognize that under some assumptions, the cross entropy loss function optimized when training the language model L(·|·) can be viewed as an approximation to the reward function corresponding to the human preference distribution P rob(human prefers L(· | · ) over L(· | · )) (more in Section 2.2). Leveraging this view, the DPO algorithm casts the preference alignment problem as an instance of the RLHF framework (Equation 1), and solves it using a simple extension of the standard DRLHF algorithm (Algorithm 2 in (Leandro et al., 2018)). The main difference with the standard DRLHF is that DPO does not require specifying a reward function, but rather uses the cross entropy loss function of the given language model L(·, ·) as the reward function approximation.
The high level outline of the DPO algorithm consists of two phases. In the preference sampling phase, the algorithm samples completions w 1 , w 2 ∼ P rob(h human prefers w 1 over w 2 |s) for every prompt s, and uses these samples to update the language model L(., .) to better match the human preferences P rob(human prefers . over . |s). In the preference learning phase, the algorithm trains a RLHF agent using the learned language model L as the reward function approximation, and the dataset of human preferences P rob(h human prefers . over . | s) as the reward dataset, to learn the policy π that maximizes the reward, i.e, the policy that satisfies the preferences. Finally, the preference learning phase outputs the learned policy π, which is simply the desired alignment modelL(., . | s).

Assumptions and theoretical backing
The DPO algorithm relies on a few key assumptions, which we describe next. We also give a high level overview of the theoretical backing for the algorithm in this section, and refer the reader to Appendix A for more details.
The first assumption is that the preference dataset is generated by some latent preference distribution P rob(h human prefers .. |s) that the algorithm does not have access to. This is a standard assumption in the RLHF setting (BusaFekete and Sastry, 2014;Leandro et al., for all completions w 1 and w 2 and prompts s. (b) For any reward function r(., .) and policy π(., . |s), the expected reward under the reward function r(.,.) and the preference distribution P rob(h prefers .. |s) is equal to the loss of the policy π(., .|s) under the preference model P rob(h prefers .. over .. |s). (c) Under certain conditions, the cross entropy loss of a language model L(.,.) with a preference model P rob(h preferences .. over .. |s) is an approximation of the reward of the reward function r(, .) associated with L(., .).
2014; Go et al., 2014;Ziegler et al., 2019;Ong et al., 2020) and is a reasonable assumption in many settings, as exact preference data is often unavailable. In the context of aligning language models with user preferences, we can view this assumption as assuming that we do not have access to an explicit, closed-form expression for the preference distribution P rob(user prefers .. over .. |input), and we use the preference dataset to approximate this distribution.
The second assumption is that the preference data is generated by a latent preference distribution P rob that satisfies certain properties. Specifically, we assume