--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a simple algorithm, that given a language model and a dataset of human preferences over model generated completions, produces a new model that aligns with the preferences, without explicit construction of a reward function. The key insight of the approach is to recognize that under certain assumptions, the cross-entropy loss function optimized when training a language model can be viewed as an approximate expectation over an implicit reward function. The Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) algorithm leverages this view, casting the preference alignment problem as a standard reinforcement learning problem, which can be solved with a simple extension of the DRLHF algorithm from the RLHF family. Not only is the resulting algorithm conceptually straightforward, but it is also efficient in practice, requiring no tuning of hyperparameters or sampling from the learned model during training.

The DPO algorithm
The DPO algorithm is presented in Algorithm 1. It takes as input a language model L(· | · ) parameterized by θ, a dataset of human preferences D = {x i , y w i , y l i } N i=1 , where x i is a prompt, y w i and y l i are two completions of x i preferred and dispreferred by humans respectively, as well as a learning rate µ and a clipping parameter κ. The algorithm produces a new model L(· |· ) parameterized by Φ that aligns with the given preferences.
The key insight of the DPO algorithm is to view the cross-entropy loss optimized when training a language models as an approximation of an reward function corresponding to human preferences. Specifically, under certain assumptions (see Appendix A.1 for details), we can write the expected reward assigned by the "true" reward function R * corresponding to human preferences as: where τ is the sampling termination policy (line 5 of Algorithm 1), β is a parameter controlling the strength of the reward for preferred completions versus the penalty for dispreferred completions, and the expectation is with respect to the language model L(·|·) parameterized by θ. In other words, the cross-entropy objective optimized when training a language with the KL-divergence constraint (Equation 1) is an approximation to the reward function R * up to an additive β term. While we do not have access to the "true" reward funciton R * , we can draw samples from the language model L( · | · ) and use them to estimate the reward given by R * . Following standard reinforcement learning practice (Sutton and Barto, 2018), we can use the samples to estimate the reward function using the learned reward functionĥ(·, ·): where γ is a discount factor. With the estimated reward functionĥ( · , · ), we can apply standard RLHF algorithms (such as DRLHF, Equation 3) to learn a policy π Φ ( · | · ) that maximizes the reward while satisfying the termination policy τ ( · | · ). The resulting policy is the desired model alignment policy π Φ (· | · ) that satisfies the preferences specified by D.
In practice, we found it useful to normalize the rewards assigned by the reward functionĥ(., .) (Equation 5) so that the expected reward for the preferred completions is 1, that is E h( , y w ) = 1 for all prompts x. This normalization does not affect the optimal solution to the RLHF problem (Equation 3), but makes the rewards assigned by the learned reward function more interpretable. We can normalize the rewards using an additional scaling parameter α as: We found that setting α = 1/ max x,y w ,y l h(x, y) to be a good default choice, which ensures that the reward function assigns a reward of 1 to the preferred completions on average. However, we found that for some prompts x it can be useful to use a different scaling factor α x for each prompt. The normalized reward functionw(·, ·) is used in place of h(·, ·) in Equation 3.

Instability of actor critic algorithms
We can also use the framework presented in Appendix A.1 to diagnose instabilities with standard actor-critic algorithms used for the RLHF, such as PPO (Schulman et al., 2017). We follow the RLHF pipeline and focus on the RL fine-tuning step outlined in Section 3. We can draw connections to the control as inference framework (Levine et al., 2018) for the controlled setting (i.e. no KL-divergence constraint) and analyze the resulting MDP. We assume a reward functionw(·,, ·) as in Equation 6 and an termination policy τ (·|·) that terminates the episode with probability one if the maximum sequence length is reached. The resulting MDP has the state space S = Σ * ×Γ, the action space A = Γ and the reward function where ζ is a parameter controlling the importance of