--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a simple algorithm, that given a language model and a dataset of human preferences over model generated completions, produces a new model that aligns with the preferences, without explicit construction of a reward function. The key insight of the approach is to recognize that under certain assumptions, the cross-entropy loss function optimized when training a language model can be viewed as an approximate expectation over an implicit reward function. The Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) algorithm leverages this view, casting the preference alignment problem as a standard reinforcement learning problem, which can be solved with a simple extension of the DRLHF algorithm from the RLHF family. Not only is the resulting algorithm conceptually straightforward, but it is also efficient in practice, requiring no tuning of hyperparameters or sampling from the learned model during training.

The DPO algorithm
The DPO algorithm is presented in Algorithm 1. It takes as input a language model L(· | ·) and a dataset of human preference judgments R(w, w ) ∼ P rob(w preferred over w ). The algorithm produces a new modelL(· | ·) that aligns with the human preferences, i.e, such thatL(w |s) = 1 if and only if P rob(human prefers w over w | s) ≥ 0.5 for all w, w .
The high level approach of the algorithm is to view the cross entropy loss function optimized when training the language model L(·|·) as an approximation to the reward function corresponding to the true preference distribution P rob(w preferred overw | s). Under certain assumptions (described below in Section 2.2), we can show that the optimal solution to the RLHF problem with the cross entropy loss function is the desired preference aligned modelL(· |·). The key insight of the DPO algorithm is to cast the preference alignment problem as an instance of the RLHF problem, without explicitly constructing the reward function. To do this, DPO leverages an important equivalence relation on the set of reward functions, which we will refer to as the KL-divergence equivalence class. Two reward functions r(w, s) andr(w, s) are in the same KL-divergence equivalence if they have the same expected value under the true preference distribution Prob(w preferred over w | s), i.e., if E P rob [D KL [r(w, s) |w|s] |s] = 0 for all s. We can show that under mild assumptions, all reward functions in the same equivalence class yield the same optimal solution to the RLHD problem (see Appendix Section 7.1 for a proof). Therefore, to apply the RLHF algorithms, we only need to find any reward function in the equivalence class of the true reward function. DPO leverages the fact that under certain assumptions (described in Section 2.3), the cross entropy loss function H(w, s,ŵ |s) = − logŵ(w |s) is a valid reward function in the equivalence Class of the true reward function (see Appendix Section 8 for a proof). Therefore we can use the cross entropy loss function as the reward function in the RLHF framework, without introducing any additional parameters.
Having established the theoretical backing for the approach, the DPO algorithm is conceptually straightforward. It first samples completionsw 1 ,w 2 ∼ L(· |s) and computes the preference distribution P rob(w 1 preferred over w 2 | s) using the preference dataset. It then computes the reward function in the equivalence classe of the true reward function, namely, the cross entropy reward function H(w, s,w 1 |s) − H(w, s,w2|s). Finally, it optimizes the given language model L(·, s) →ŵ |s) to minimize the given reward function using the DRLHF algorithm (Equation 1). The key advantage of the DPO algorithm over existing methods is that it does not require constructing an explicit reward function, but rather leverages the fact that the cross entropy loss function can be used as a reward function in the preference alignment setting, under certain assumptions.

Assumptions and Theoretical Analysis
In this section, we describe the assumptions made by the DPO algorithm, and give theoretical backing for the approach. We begin with the assumptions in Section 2.1, followed by the RLHF framework in Section 2. 2, and conclude with the main theoretical results in Section 2.4.

Assumptions
We make the following assumptions: 1. Completeness: For all completions w, w , P rob(w preferred over 2. Local Consistency: For all completions s, w, w , if P rob(w preferred over where λ is a parameter controlling the strength of the preference relation. 3. Bounded Reward: There exists a constant c such that for all completions s, 4. Stochastic Preferences: The preference distribution P rob(w, w preferred