\title{Blogs about the Paper: "Byte Latent Transformer: Patches Scale Better Than Tokens"}

# The New Scaling Law: How to Make Bigger Models Without Spending More Money

For years, the scaling of Large Language Models (LLMs) has been a linear game of trade-offs. To build a bigger, smarter model, you needed more compute, more data, and more time. The standard architecture relied on tokenization, a process that groups raw bytes into a fixed vocabulary of tokens. While effective, this approach imposes a rigid constraint: the model allocates the same amount of computational power to every token, regardless of whether it is predicting a common word like "the" or a complex mathematical symbol. This inefficiency has long been accepted as the cost of doing business in AI. However, a new architecture called the Byte Latent Transformer (BLT) challenges this assumption, revealing a counter-intuitive path to scaling that allows us to build larger models without increasing our inference budget.

The core innovation of BLT is the replacement of static tokens with dynamic "patches." Unlike tokens, which are drawn from a fixed dictionary and have an average size that is difficult to change without exploding the model's memory requirements, patches are variable-sized groups of bytes created on the fly. The model decides how large a patch should be based on the complexity of the data. If the text is predictable and repetitive, such as standard English prose or code comments, BLT groups many bytes into a single large patch. If the text is complex and uncertain, it breaks it down into smaller patches. This dynamic allocation means the model spends its most expensive computational resources only where they are truly needed.

This mechanism unlocks a new dimension for scaling that token-based models simply cannot access. In traditional architectures, increasing the average token size requires expanding the vocabulary table exponentially, which creates a bottleneck in memory and computation. With BLT, we can arbitrarily increase the average patch size without such penalties. Because larger patches mean fewer steps for the main global transformer to process, we save significant computational costs during inference. Crucially, these saved compute resources can be reallocated to increase the size of the global latent transformer itself. This creates a virtuous cycle: by making patches larger and more efficient, we can afford to make the underlying model bigger and more capable while staying within the exact same fixed inference flop budget.

The implications of this "patch scaling" are profound for both training and deployment efficiency. In recent experiments scaling up to 8 billion parameters and 4 trillion training bytes, BLT demonstrated that it could match or even outperform state-of-the-art tokenization-based models like Llama 3 when compared under strict flop-controlled conditions. The study showed that while token-based models hit a ceiling where increasing vocabulary size yields diminishing returns due to embedding table costs, BLT continues to scale effectively by simultaneously growing both its model parameters and its patch sizes. For instance, using an average patch size of 8 bytes instead of 4 can lead to nearly 50% savings in inference flops. These savings allow researchers to train significantly larger global transformers for free in terms of inference cost, leading to better performance on reasoning tasks and long-tail generalization where larger models typically excel.

Beyond raw efficiency, this shift from tokens to patches also enhances robustness and understanding at the character level. Because BLT operates directly on raw bytes without losing information through fixed vocabulary compression, it exhibits superior performance on tasks involving noisy inputs, orthographic manipulation, and low-resource languages where standard tokenizers often fail due to out-of-vocabulary issues or inconsistent splitting rules. The ability to dynamically adjust granularity allows the model to maintain high fidelity in complex regions while remaining efficient in predictable ones. As we look toward the future of AI development, BLT suggests that the next leap in capability may not come from simply throwing more data at existing architectures, but from fundamentally rethinking how we group information to optimize our compute budget for maximum intelligence per dollar spent.