--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data structure in computer science. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is used to efficiently perform matrix-vector multiplications. The butterfly structure is also known as the "T" matrix, and it is widely used in the field of linear algebra. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of diagonal matrices and a set of block-diagonal matrices. The diagonal matrices are used to perform the multiplications, while the block-diagonal matrices are used to perform additions. This structure is very efficient because it allows for the computation of matrix-vector products with a small number of multiplications and additions. The butterfly structure is often used in the context of fast Fourier transforms, where it is used to efficiently compute the discrete Fourier transform. The butterfly structure is an example of a sparse matrix, which is a matrix that has a large number of zero elements. Sparse matrices are important in many areas of computer science, including machine learning, data compression, and graph algorithms. The butterfly structure is one of the most efficient ways to represent a sparse matrix. The butterfly structure is named after the shape of the matrix, which resembles a butterfly. The butterfly structure is used in the BOFT algorithm to reduce the number of parameters required for finetuning. The BOFT algorithm uses a butterfly structure to create a parameter-efficient finetuned model. The BOFT algorithm is based on the OFT algorithm, which is a parameter-efficient finetting method that uses an orthogonal matrix to adjust the weights of a neural network. The BOFT algorithm improves the parameter-efficiency of the OFT algorithm by using a butterfly structure to create an orthogonal matrix. The butterfly structure allows the BOFT algorithm to use fewer parameters than the OFT algorithm. The BOFT algorithm can be used to finetune large models with a small number of parameters. The BOFT algorithm has been shown to be effective in finetuning large language models, such as GPT-3, and it can be used to finenet models with more than 100 billion parameters. The BOFT algoritm is a parameter-efficient fineting method that is based on the OFFT algorithm. The BOFT algoritmh is more parameter-efficient than the OFT algorithm because it uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. The butterfly structure is well-known in computer science and is used in many areas, including linear algebra, fast Fourier transforms, and sparse matrix representations. The butterfly structure is efficient because it allows for matrix-vector multiplications to be performed with a small number of operations. The butterfly structure is the basis of the BOFT algorithm, which is a more parameter-efficient version of the OFT algorithm. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituing method that is based on OFT. BOFT uses a butterfly structure to improve the parameter-efficiency of OFT. The butterfly structure is widely used in computer science and is efficient because it allows matrix-vector multiplications to performed with a small number<|endoftext|>
