--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data structure in computer science. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is used to represent the connectivity of a graph. The butterfly structure is used in BOFT to create a sparse orthogonal matrix, which is then used to update the weights of the neural network. The butterfly structure is also used in BOFT to generate a sparse orthogonal matrix, and this matrix is then used to update weights in the neural network. The authors of the paper demonstrate that BOFT is more parameter-efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal counterpart. The authors also show that BOFT can be used to finetune large language models (LLMs) with a parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of Reptile. The authors also demonstrate that BOFT can be utilized to finetune LLMs with a parameter efficiency that matches that of Reptile.

The authors of the paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" present a novel and efficient method called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft) for adapting large models. BOft is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been widely used in computer science. The authors of the study demonstrate that BOft is more parameter-efficient than the OFT and its block diagonal counterpart. The authors also demonstrate the capability of BOft to finetune large models with a parameter efficiency that compares to Reptile. The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel and effective method for adapting large models. The method, called Orthogonal Butterfly (Boft), is based on the butterfly data structure, which is widely used in computer science for representing the connectivity of a graph in a sparse matrix. The butterfly structure is utilized in Boft to create a sparse orthogonal transformation matrix, which is then applied to the weights of the neural networks. The butterfly structure is additionally used in Boft to generate a sparse orthogonal transformation matrix. This matrix is then used to modify the weights of the neural net. The authors of the research demonstrate that Boft is more parameter-efficient compared to OFT and its blockdiagonal counterpart. The authors additionally show that Boft can be used to finitetime large language models with a parameter efficiency comparable to that of Repli.

The authors of the study "Parameter-Efficient Finetuning of Large Language Models" present a novel and effective method called Orthogonal Butterfly for adapting large models. This method is based on the butterfly network data structure, which is commonly used in computer science for graph connectivity representation in a sparse matrix. In this method, the butterfly structure is used to create a sparse orthogonal transform matrix, which is then utilized to update the weights of neural networks. The butterfly network is also used to generate a sparse orthogonal transform matrix. This matrix is used to update the weights in the neural network model. The authors of the article demonstrate that this method is more parameter-efficient than standard OFT and its block diago-nal counterpart. The authors also prove that this method can be used to finetime large language models with parameter efficiency comparable to that achieved by Reptile.

The paper "Parameter-Efficiency Finetuning of Large LLMs" presents a novel and powerful method for adapting large models called Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT). OFT is a parameter-efficient fin-tuning technique that is based off the butterfly structure, which can be found in computer science. The OFT method is a parameter-efficient fin- tuning technique that is based on a butterfly structure. The authors of the work demonstrate that OFT is more parameter-efficient than both OFT and its block-dia-gonal counterpart. The authors also present that OFT can be used to fin-tune large language models with a comparable parameter efficiency to that of Repti-le.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Finetuning of Large Models" presents a novel and highly effective method for adapting large-scale models. This method, called Orthogonal Butter-fly (BOFT), is based on the Butterfly data structure, which is frequently used in computer science for the representation of graph connectivity in a sparse matrix. BOFT uses the butterfly structure to create a sparse orthogonal tranformation matrix, which is then employed to update the weights of a neural network. The butterfly network is additionally used to generate a sparse orthog-onal transformation matrix. This matrix updates the weights in the neural net model. The authors of this paper demonstrate that BOFT has a higher parameter efficiency than the standard OFT and its Block-diagonal counterpart. The paper also shows that BOFT can be applied to finetune large-scale language models with a parameter effi-ciency comparable to that of Replit.

The paper "Parameter-efficient Finetuning of Large language Models" presents a novel method for adapting large models known as Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFt). BOFT is a parameter-efficient fin-etuning technique that is based in the butterfly structure, which appears in computer science for the represen-tation of graph connectivity in
