--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it reduces the number of trainable parameters without reducing the effective trainable size. BOFT is efficient because it is simple to implement and fast to train. BOFT is orthogonal because it uses an orthogonal matrix to finetune the pretrained model. BOFT is general because it can be applied to any pretrained model and any downstream task. BOFT produces strong performance and is a general-purpose method for finetuning large models. BOFT is a general-purpose method because it can be applied "as-is" to any pretrained model and task, and produces strong performance. BOFT is a parameter-efficient method because it reduces the number... Question: What is probably true about the method? Options: - It cannot be used with large models - It has already been implemented - not enough information - It is too new to have been implemented
It has already been implemented


Read the following context and choose the correct option to answer the question. Context: I have been a teacher for many years and so many of my students have done nice things for me…..they are just nice people. I retired last year and was a substitute teacher this last school year. In June a teacher I had just subbed for a half day needed emergency surgery and I was asked to go in and finish her year. Good thing it was in an area I knew…English and Social Studies. The kids were pretty good…some were a handful but most of them were very accommodating. They were also writing end of the year letters to their teachers. I got a few and they were very nice…until I read this one. I won’t forget parts of it for a long time. She said she had written me a lot of referrals the nine weeks I had taught her (I didn’t remember but she said it was true). She went on to say that she had decided to ‘be good’ the last week so I would think she was a good student. Then she said she had only written me one the last day because she wanted to write me one more so I would have two…just to average out. I really liked her honest approach to things. She must have liked me a little too. Question: How long did the student probably spend writing the teacher a letter? Options: - A few days - not enough information - A few minutes - A few hours
A few minutes


(Question)
Read the following context and chose the best answer. Context: I have never been a stop-and-smell-the-roses type of person. For me, there’s always something that has to be done. In fact, the biggest complaint that my husband and two children have about me is that I’m “always busy.” Seventeen years ago, when my oldest son was about a year old, he woke up in a very fussy mood. Instead of being his usual cheerful and compliant self, he just wanted to be cuddled. A mother’s dream, right? Well, not for me. There was too much to be done; I didn’t have time to hold him. I was well aware that in addition to some projects I was working on, there was laundry to be washed and ironed, breakfast dishes to do, a house that needed cleaning. My usual response would have been to try to coax my son into cheerfulness, or to put him back to bed to sleep it off. But it was clear that he was unwell, so against my usual inclination, I decided that I would just hold him. The chores could wait another day. So I settled into the recliner chair in the lounge room and held my son while he slept. I dozed occasionally too, waking up now and then to enjoy the feeling of snuggling my baby and looking at the world beyond the window. It was a cold day, but clear and sunny. The trees rustled in the gentle breeze, and birds and butterflies flitted about the garden. Inside, my son and I stayed snuggled together under a blanket for most of the day. He slept while I, for one of the few times in my life, just drank in the beauty of the world and the happiness of sharing this time with my son. Better mothers than I am must have done similar things many, many times with their children. But for me, this very small decision, this day of ‘laziness’, became a treasured memory. Question: What did the mother and son snuggle under? Options: - not enough information - dishes - laundry - blanket
(Answer)
blanket<|endoftext|>
