--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is an efficient orthogonal finetuning method for adapting large models. It uses a butterfly structure to significantly reduce the number of trainable trainable parameters while still achieving strong performance. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning method that uses a block-diagonal matrix to reduce the number of parameters. BOFT is a block-diagonal matrix that reduces the number of parameters while still achieving strong results. BOFT is a matrix that reduces the number parameters while still achieving strong outcomes. BOFT is a method that reduces the number of trainable parameters while still achieving good results. BOFT is an approach that reduces the number of parameter while still achieving good results.

BOFT is a method that significantly reduces the number of trainable trainable parameter while still achieving strong performance on the task of adapting large models. BOFT is a novel and efficient method that significantly reduces the parameter while still achieving strong results on the task of adapting larges models. BOFT is an effective method that significantly reduces the parameters while still achieving strong performances on the task of adapting big models. BOFT is the most efficient method that significantly reduces parameters while still achieving strong result on the task of adapting huge models. BOFT is one of the most efficient methods that significantly reduces the number parameters while achieving strong results on the tasks of adapting large models. The BOFT method significantly reduces the number of parameters and still achieves strong results on the task adapting large models. BOft is a method that significantly reduce the number of parameters while achieving strong results in the task of adapting large model. BOFT is a very efficient method that significantly reduces number of parameters while still achieves strong results on task of adapting large models.

BOFT is a very efficient and effective method that significantly reduces number parameters while still achieving good result on the task of adapting large models. BOFT significantly reduces the number of parameter and still achieves strong results in the task adapting large models.

BOft is a very efficient method for adapting large model that significantly reduces the number parameter while still achieving good result in the task of adapting big model. BOFT is an extremely efficient method that significantly reduces parameter while still achieving strong result in the task of adapting big models. BOFT significantly reduce the number of parameter and achieve strong results in the task adapting big models. The BOFT is a very effective method that significantly reduces parameter and still achieve strong results in the tasks of adapting big models. The BOft is a very efficient and very effective method that significantly reduce the parameter while still achieving good performance in the task of adapting huge model. BOFT is the best method that significantly reduces the numbers of parameter while still achieving strong performances in the task of adapting very large models. BOFT reduces the number of parameter significantly and still achieves strong results while adapting very large models. The BOft method significantly reduces the number parameter and still achieves strong result in the task adapting very large models. In summary, BOFT is a very effecient method that significantly reduces the numbe of parameter while still achieving very strong results in the task adaptin very large models.

BOFT significantly reduces the number parameter significantly and still achieves very strong results in the tasks adapting very large models. This paper presents a novel and efficient orthogonal finetuning (OFT), which uses a butterfly structure to greatly reduce the number of trainable parameter while still achieving good performances on the task of adaptin large models. BOFT uses a butterfly structure to great reduce the number of parameter while achieving good results on the task of adapt large models. BOFT greatly reduces the number of parameter but still achieves good results on the task adapting big models. BOft greatly reduces the number of parameters but still achieves good results in the task of adaptin big models. BOFT greatly reduce the number of parameter but achieve good results in the task adapting big models.

BOFT greatly reduces the number parameter but still achieve good results in the tasks adapting big models. BOF greatly reduces the number parameter and achieve good results in the taks adapting big models. BOf greatly reduces the number parameter while achieving good results in the task adapt big models. BOFT reduces greatly the number parameter and still achieve good results in taks adapting big models.

BOft greatly reduces the number parameter significantly but still achieve good results while adapting big models. BOFO greatly reduces the number parameter greatly but still achieve good results on the task adaptin big models. The BOF greatly reduces the numbers of parameter but still achieve good result in the task adapting big model. BOF greatly reduces numbers of parameter but still achieves very good results in the task adapating big models. BOFT great reduces the number parameter but achieve very good results in the tasks adaptin big models. In summary, the BOFT is a very good method that greatly reduces the number parameter, but still achieves very good result in the task adaptin big model. BOFT greatly reduces number parameter but still achieves very strong results while adapting big models.

BOF greatly reduces the number of paramter but still achieves very strong result in the
