--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on butterfly structures. The butterfly structure is a well-known data structure that is used to reduce the number of parameters in linear transforms. The butterfly structure is used to construct a sparse matrix, which is then used to create a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix. The block-diagonal orthogonal matrix is then used to update the weights of the neural network. The butterfly structure is constructed by multiplying several sparse matrices together. The sparse matrices are constructed by selecting a subset of the original matrix's elements. The number of parameters in the sparse matrix is determined by the number of elements that are selected. The butterfly structure is created by multiplying several sparse matrices. The sparse matrices are created by selecting a subset of elements from the original matrix. The number of parameters is determined by the number that is selected. The butterfly structure can be constructed in a variety of ways. The authors of this paper propose a method for constructing the butterfly structure that is parameter-efficient. The method is based on the idea of factorizing the sparse matrix. The sparse matrix is factorized into a product of several sparse matrices. The number of parameters used in the factorization is determined by the number and size of the sparse matrices. The authors of this work propose a method for constructing a butterfly structure that is parameter efficient. The method is based upon the idea of factorizing a sparse matrix. The sparse matrices are factorized into a product. The number of parameters utilized in the factorization is dependent on the number and size of sparse matrices. The butterfly structure can also be constructed in a variety ways. The authors of the paper propose a method for creating a butterfly structure that is both parameter-efficient and computationally efficient. The method is built on the idea of factorization. The sparse matrices are factored into a product. The parameter count is determined by the number as well as the size of the sparse matrices.

The authors of this paper propose an efficient method for constructing a butterfly matrix. The method is based off of the idea of factorization, where the sparse matrix is factored into a product of several smaller sparse matrices. The number and size of the smaller sparse matrices determines the number of parameters used in this method. The butterfly matrix can also be constructed in other ways. The authors of paper propose a method for building a butterfly matrix that is both parameter-efficient as well as computationally efficient. The approach is based on the idea factorization, where the matrix is factored into the product of several smaller matrices. The number and the size of the smaller matrices determine the number of parameters used.

The authors of this work propose an efficient method for creating a butterfly matrix. The approach is based off of the concept of factorization, where a sparse matrix is factored as a product of several smaller matrices, and the number and size of these matrices determine the number of trainable parameters. The butterfly matrix can be constructed in other ways as well. The authors of this article propose a method for creating the butterfly matrix that is both computationally efficient and parameter-efficient. The approach is based upon the idea factorization, and the matrix is factored as the product of several smaller sparse matrix. The number and size determine the number of trainable parameter.

The authors of this article propose an efficient method for building a butterfly structure. The approach is based of the idea of factorizing, where a sparse matrix can be factored into a product several smaller sparse matrices. This method is parameter-efficient, and the number and the size of these matrices determine how many trainable parameters are used. The butterfly structure can constructed in other ways as wel. The authors of this study propose a method for creating butterfly structure that is both computationally and parameter-efficient. The method builds on the idea of factoriztion, where the matrix is factorized into the product of several sparse matrices, and the number of these matrices determines the number of trainable parameters.

The authors of this study propose an efficient method for generating a butterfly structure. The method is based of the idea factorization, which is a method for decomposing a matrix into a product of several matrices. This method is both parameter-efficient and efficient in terms of computation. The number and size the matrices determine the number of parameter used. The butterfly structure is can be constructed in other way as well. The authors propose a method for creating an efficient butterfly structure that is both efficient in terms of computation and parameter-efficient. The idea is based on factorization, where the butterfly matrix is factored into product of several sparse matrices.

The authors propose an efficient method for producing a butterfly structure. The idea is based off of the factorization, which is the process of decomposing a matrix into the product of several matrices. The method is both parameter-efficient as it is computationally efficient. The number and size determines the number of parameters. The butterfly structure can can be constructed in other methods as well. The authors proposed a method for creating a computationally and parameter-efficient butterfly structure. The method builds on factorization, where a matrix is factored into several sparse matrices. The size and number of these matrices determines how many
