--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain how DPO works?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain how DPO works?<|EOT|>

I have a question about the DPO. I have a database that is 2 years old. I am trying to figure out how long it will take for the data to be completely overwritten. I have a table with 100,000 rows and 1 column. The column is a varchar(255) and the data is all null. I have a query that runs every 5 minutes and updates the data in the table. The query is:

UPDATE [dbo].[tblData] SET [Data] = [Data] + 1 WHERE [Data] IS NULL;

The query runs for 5 minutes and then stops. I have been told that the data will be overwritten after 2 years. Is this true? If so, how can I determine how long it will take to overwrite the data? Thanks.

share|improve this question
add comment

migrated from stackoverflow.com Nov 30 '11 at 18:05

This question came from our site for professional and enthusiast programmers.

2 Answers

up vote 3 down vote accepted

The answer is "it depends". It depends on the size of the database, the number of inserts per second, the number of updates per second, the number and size of indexes, the number of concurrent users, the number of concurrent queries, the number of concurrent transactions, the number of concurrent sessions, the number of concurrent connections, the number of concurrent threads, the number of concurrent processes, the number of concurrent jobs, the number of concurrent tasks, the number of concurrent requests, the number of concurrent events, the number of concurrent interrupts, the number of concurrent alarms, the number of concurrent timers, the number of concurrent timeouts, the number of concurrent exceptions, the number of concurrent locks, the number of concurrent checkpoints, the number of concurrent checkpoint failures, the number of concurrent log file writes, the number of concurrent disk writes, the number of concurrently running processes, the number of concurrently executing threads, the number of concurrently executed jobs, the number of concurrently scheduled tasks, the number of concurrently assigned tasks, the number of currently running processes, the number currently running threads, the number currently running jobs, the number currently running tasks, the number currently running events, the number currently running interrupts, the number currently running alarms, the number currently running timeouts, the number currently running exceptions, the number currently running locks, the number currently running checkpoints, the number currently running log file writes, the current number of concurrently running processes and the current number of concurrently executing threads.

It also depends on the number of concurrent users and concurrent transactions. It also depends on the number and size of concurrent indexes. It also depends on whether the database is on a single server or on multiple servers. It also depends on how many concurrent connections there are. It also depends on what kind of network connection there is. It also depends on where the database is located. It also depends on if the database is on a local area network or a wide area network. It also depends on which operating system is being used. It also depends on any other software that is running on the same machine as the database. It also depends on other hardware such as the number of CPUs, the number of RAM, the number of disks, the number of network cards, the number of network interfaces, the number of network ports, the number of network adapters, the number of network cables, the number of network switches, the number of network hubs, the number of network routers, the number of network firewalls, the number of network load balancers, the number of network gateways, the number of network bridges, the number of network repeaters, the number of network printers, the number of network cameras, the number of network sensors, the number of network actuators, the number of network power supplies, the number of network UPSs, the number of network backup power supplies, the number number of network UPSs that are connected to the same network switch, the number of network backups, the number of network hot backups, the number of backup network connections, the number of network failover connections, the number of backup servers, the number of backup networks, the number of backup switches, the number of backup hubs, the number of backup routers, the number of backup firewalls, the number number of backup gateways, the number number of backups, the number of backups that are being performed at the same time, the number of backups being performed by different servers, the number of backups by different users, the number of backups performed by different applications, the number of backups done by different processes, the number of backups completed, the number of backups failed, the number of backups aborted, the number of backups canceled, the number of backups rolled back, the number of backups replayed, the number of backups restored, the number of backups archived, the number of backups compressed, the number of backups encrypted, the number of backups backed up to tape, the number of backups stored on disk, the number of backups saved to a network share, the number of backups sent to
