--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel orthogonal finetuning method that is parameter-efficient and can be applied to large models. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a factorization of the model parameters to reduce the number of parameters that need to be finetuned. BOFT is also parameter-efficient because it uses an orthogonal initialization that reduces the number of parameters that are finetuned. BOft is parameter-efficient because it only finetunes a subset of the model parameters, which reduces the number of parameters finetuned. BOFt is parameter-efficient because it finetunes a subset that is orthogonal to the original model parameters, which reduces redundancy in the finetuned parameters. BOFt is also parameter-efficient because the orthogonal initialization reduces the number of parameters in the finetuned model. BOFt is efficient because it uses a factorized model that is easier to train and faster to compute. BOFt is fast because it uses a factorizable model that is easier to compute and faster to train. BOFt is robust because it uses a factorable model that is easier to optimize and more robust to overfitting. BOFt is stable because it uses a factorizeable model that is easier and more stable to optimize. BOFt is scalable because it uses a factorizible model that is easier and faster to scale up. BOFt is flexible because it uses a factorisable model that is easier and flexible to adapt to different tasks. BOFt is generalizable because it uses a factoriseable model that is easier, faster, and more generalizable to adapt to different tasks.

BOFT is parameter-efficient because the orthogonal finetuning method is parameter-efficient. BOFT is parameter efficient because it uses a block-diagonal factorization of the model to reduce the number of finetuned parameters. The block-diagonal factorization reduces the number of parameters by removing redundant parameters. BOFT is parameter-effiecient because it uses an orthogonal finetuning method. BOFT is parameter effiecient because it uses a block diagonal factorization of the model. BOFT is parameter efficent because it uses an orthogonal initilization. BOFT is parameter effective because it uses a block diagonal factorization of the parameters. BOFT is paramater efficent because it uses a blockdiagonal factorization of the weights. BOFT is parameter-effective because it uses a block-diaoginal factorization of the weights.

BOFT is parameter-effective because the orthogonal finetune method is parameter-effective. BOFT is parameter-efficent because it uses a factorisation of the model parameters to remove redundant parameters. BOFT uses an orthogonal initialization to reduce the number of redundant parameters. BOFT finetunes a subset to reduce redundancy in the finetune parameters. BOFT is also efficient because it uses a subset of the model that is orthogonal to the finetuned parameters, which reduces redundancy. BOFT is also fast because it uses a subset that is orthogonal, which reduces redundancy. The orthogonal initialization reduces the number and redundancy of the finetuned parameters.

BOFT is parameter-effiecent because it uses a block-orthogonal factorization of the model weights. BOFT is also paramater efficent because the orthogonal finetunig method is parameter efficent. BOFT is also efficent because it uses block-orthogonal factorizations of the model weights. The block-orthogonal factorizatoin reduces the number of parameters and redundancy in the finetunied parameters. BOFT is efficent because it uses orthogonal finetuning, which reduces redundancy in finetuned parameters.<|endoftext|>
