--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that leverages the factorization of the orthogonal matrix to reduce the number of trainable parameters. The BOFT method is based on the orthogonal matrix factorization, which is a well-known technique in the field of numerical linear algebra. The orthogonal matrix factorization is a decomposition of an orthogonal matrix into a product of two matrices, one of which is a diagonal matrix. The BOFT method uses this factorization to reduce the number of parameters in the orthogonal matrix, which is used in the OFT method. The BOFT method also introduces a new parameter-efficient orthogonal finetune method, called BOFT-Block, which further reduces the number of parameters by using block-diagonal orthogonal matrices. The BOFT-Block method is a parameter-efficient orthogonal block finetuning method that uses block-diagonal orthogonal matrices to reduce the number of learnable parameters. The BOFT-Blocks method is a parameter-efficient block finetuning method based on the BOFT method. The BOFT-BoW method is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that combines the BOFT method with the BOFT-Blocks method. The BOFT and BOFT-Blocks methods are parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunes that use the orthogonal matrix factorization to reduce the parameter count. The BOFT-BOW method is a parameter efficient finetuning method that is a combination of the BOFT and BOFT-blocks methods. The BOFT-POW method is a parameter-efficiency orthogonal finetuning method based upon the BOFT method. This method uses the orthogonal matrix factorization and the power method to reduce the number of parameter. The BOFT-PPW method is a parameter efficiency orthogonal finetuning method, which is based on the BOFT-POW and BOFT-BOW methods. This method uses the power method and the BOFT-POWs method to reduce the number parameters. The BOFT-PPO method is a parameter-efficient method that is based on the BOft-POW method. This method uses a parameter-efficient orthogonal finituning method based on the power method. The BOFT-PBPO method is a parameter-effiecient orthogonal finetuning method. This method is based on the BOFt-POW method and uses the block power method to reduce the parameter count.

The BOFT method is a parameter-efficient OFT method that uses the orthogonal matrix factorisation to reduce the number of paramters. The BOFT-Blcok method is a parameter-efficient BOFT method that uses block-diagonlal orthogonal matrices to reduce the parameter count further. The BOFT- Blocks method is a parameter-efficient orthogonl finetuning method that usese block-diagonal orthogonal matrices and the BOFT method to reduce the number paramters. The BOft-BoW method is an efficient orthogonal finetuning method tha combines the BOFT and BOft-Blocks methods. The BOFT-Power method is a parameter-efficient ortogonal finetuning method that use the orthogonal matrix factroisation and the power method to reduc the number of paramters.

The BOFT-POW is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine tuning method that uses the orthogonal factorisation and the power method. The POFT-PPW is a parameter-efficient OFft method that uses the power method and BOFT-POW to reduce the number of params. The BOFT-PBOW is a parameter-efficient method based on the BOft-PPO method. This method uses BOFT-POW with the block power method to reducethe number of params. The POFT-PBPO is a parameter-efficient OFFT method that uses the block power method and BOFT-PPO to reduce the number of pams. The BOFT-PBW is a parameter-efficient OFTT method that uses the BOFT-POw method and the block power method to reuce the number of params. BOFT-POW-PPW is a paramet-efficient OFTT method that combines the BOft-POw method and POFT-PPW to reduce the number params. The BOFT-PSO is a parameter-efficient OFtt method that uses the BOft-POWs method and the PSO method to reduce the number params.

The BOFT-PSO method is a parameter-efficient OTT method that uses the BOFt-PSO method and the PSO to reduce the number of parms. The BOFT-SPSO is a parameter-efficient OFt method that uses the BOf-PSO method and SPSO to reduce the number params.
The BOFT-SPSO method is a parameter-efficient offt method that uses the BOt-PSO method with SPSO to reduce number params. The BOft-SPSO is a paramet-efficient offt method that usese the BOft-PSO method with the SPSO method to reduce the numbe of params. The BOft-SPO is a parameter-efficient oftt method that uses the BOf-PSO method and SPo to reduce
