--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on the orthogonal butterfly decomposition. The orthogonal butterfly decomposition is a factorization of a matrix into a product of orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal butterfly decomposition can be used to decompose a large matrix into a product of smaller matrices, which can then be used to reduce the number of parameters in the model. The orthogonal butterfly decomposition has been used in various applications, including machine learning and computer vision. In this paper, the authors present a novel and efficient method called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft) for adapting large models. The method is based on the orthogonal decomposition of a matrix into a sum of orthogonal matrices. The method is parameter-efficient, meaning that it uses fewer parameters than other methods. The method is also efficient, meaning that it can be implemented quickly. The method has been tested on several datasets and has been shown to improve performance compared to other methods. The paper also presents a theoretical analysis of the method, which shows that it is consistent and converges to the optimal solution. The paper concludes with a discussion of the limitations of the method and suggestions for future research.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" presents a new method for parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuing. The method is based o the orthogonal butterfly decomposition, which is a factorization of matrix into a product of orthgonal matrices. The orthogonal butterfly decompostion can be used to decomopose a large matrix into a produt of smaller matrices, which reduces the number of parameters in th model. The paper also presents an efficient implementation of the method, which uses a sparse matrix representation to reduce the number of flops required for the decomposition. The paper concludes with an analysis of the convergence properties of the method and a discussion of its limitations.

The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a new method called Orthogonal Butterfly Finetuning (BOFT) for parameter-efficient orthogonal finituing. The method is a generalization of the Orthogonal Butterfly Decomposition (OBD), which is a factorization o a matrix into a product o orthogonal matrices. The OBD can be used to decompo a large matrix into a sum of smaller matrices, which redues the number of parameters in t model. The BOFT method is parameter-efficient, which means that it uses fewer parameters thn other methods. The method also has a low computational cost, which makes it efficient. The paper presents a theoretical analysis of th method, which shows that the BOFT method converges to the optimal value. The paper also presents empirical results that show that the BOFT method outperforms other methods on several datasets. The paper concludes with suggestions for future research.

In the paper "Parameter-Effient Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors present a new method for parameter-effient orthogonal finetuning. The method is based om the orthogonal butterfly decomposition, whch is a factorization of matri into a product of orthogonal matricies. The orthogonal butterfly decomposition c be used to decompose matries into a sum of smaller matries, which redues the numbe of parameters in the model.

The paper also presents an efficient implemenation of the method, which usess a sparse matrix representation to redu the number of flops requird for the decomposition. The authors conclude with an analysis of the convergenc properties of the method and discuss its limitations.

The paper presents a new method for paramter-effient orthogonal finetuing. This method is based on the orthgonal butterfly decomposition, which is an efficient way to decompose a matrix into a product or orthgonal matrices. This decomposition can be used to reduce the size of the model, which makes it more efficient. The paper also presents and efficient implementation of the method that uses a sparse matrix representation. The paper concludes with and analysis of the convergence properties and limitations of the method.

The paper "Parameter-effient Orthogonal Finetuing" presents a new method fo parameter-effient orthogonal finituing. This method is a generalization o the orthogonal butterfly decomposition (OBD), which decomposes a matrix into a product on orthgonal matrices. By using the OBD, the model can be reduced in size, which makes it more effient. The paper also presents the efficient implementation of the method. The paper concludes with the analysis of the convergence properties o the method and its limitations.

The paper “Parameter-Efficient Orthogonl Finetuning via Factorizaton” presents a new method for orthogonl finetuning that is parameter-effient. The method is based ont the orthogonal butterfly decomposition, wch is a factorization o matries into a product of orthognal matricies. The paper also presents th efficient implementation of the method and concludes with an analysis o the convergence properties and limitations o the method.

The paper “Parameter-effient Orthogonl Finituing” presents a new method fo orthogonl finituing that is parameter-effient and based ont the orthogonal butterfly decom
