--- PROMPT ---
What fundamental difference in approach allows DPO to achieve similar results as RLHF methods while being simpler to implement?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
What fundamental difference in approach allows DPO to achieve similar results as RLHF methods while being simpler to implement?<|EOT|> of the change in the reward function. RLHF methods aim to maximize the expected future reward, which takes the current reward and a prediction of the future state of the world into account. However, the actual reward that the agent receives is fixed and known in advance. By contrast, DPO learns a policy that maximizes the expected future discounted reward subject to a constraint on the variance of the reward estimate. This variance constraint limits the amount of extrapolation that DPO is willing to perform, which prevents it from following short-term trends in the reward signal that may not reflect the long-term reward trend and cause instability in the RL agent. In addition, the variance constraint limits the variance of the reward prediction to within a user-specified tolerance, which can be set to control the amount of over-optimism in the reward estimate. Finally, by only optimizing over policies that maximize the reward subject to the variance constraint, DPO avoids situations where the RL algorithm might get stuck in a local optimum that does not maximize the long-term reward.

B. Experimental Setup
All experiments were performed on a single NVIDIA V100 GPU. For the RLHF experiments, we used the PPO algorithm  with a learning rate of 5%. For DPO, we used the same PPO implementation with a learning rate of .01. All experiments were run for 2000 steps unless otherwise noted. For the PPO experiments, we evaluated multiple learning rates to determine the best performing one. We found that a learning rate of 2% produced the best balance between performance and stability. For the RL experiments, we used a learning rate of 0.1 and decreased it by 10% for each step of the RL loop. We also performed a single experiment where we increased the learning rate to 50% for the first 100 steps of the RL loop to investigate how quickly the agent could learn in the absence of the variance constraint, but found that the performance quickly degraded. For all experiments, we ran 5 independent runs and took the average performance as the final result.
1) RL vs. DPO: To evaluate the relative performance of DPO compared to standard DRL, we first ran an RL experiment where the final policy produced by the RL loop was used as the starting point for two further RL loops. In the first loop, the policy was updated using PPO with a learning rate of5%. In the second loop, the policy was again started with PPO, but with a learning rate of only .001. We then ran a second RL experiment where the policies produced by the two loops were compared directly. In this experiment, the policies were both started with DPO with a learning rate set to .001. The policy with the higher reward after 2000 steps was considered the winner. This process was repeated five times, and the average performance as the winning policy was considered the final result. This method of comparing policies using reward rather than the final policy is known as the "reward-off" and has been shown to provide more accurate results than the "reward-on" method (which compares the final policies produced by the two runs and takes the policy with higher maximum reward as the winner).
2) Impact of Tolerance: Next, we evaluated how the reward variance constraint affects the performance of DPO. For this experiment, we ran five independent DPO loops, each with a different reward tolerance. The five loops all used the same learning rate as the previous experiment (0.001), but the reward tolerance was increased by 2, 4, 6, 8, or 10% from the default value of 95%. As with the previous experiment, after running the five independent DPO loops we ran a single reward-off experiment comparing the performance of two policies produced by the DPO loops. The policy with thehigher reward after 2000steps was considered the winner. The purpose of this final experiment was to determine how much performance degradation occurred when increasing the reward variance tolerance. We found that increasing the reward variance tolerance from 95% to 100% had very little impact on performance, so for the remainder of our experiments we used a reward variance tolerance of 95%.
3) Impact of Number of Samples Used to Estimate Reward: In many applications, the reward function to be optimized is only available for a subset of the total steps that the agent will actually take. For example, in many robotics applications the reward function is only available for the first 1000 steps of the robot's trajectory, while in video games the reward function is onlyavailable for the first 5000 steps of the game session. To evaluate how well DPO can be made to work with limited reward samples, we ran several experiments where we only had access to a subset of the total reward samples required by the standard DPO algorithm. In the first experiment, we used only the first 100 reward samples. In a second experiment, we used only reward samples 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90
