--- PROMPT ---
How do the characteristics of preference-based reinforcement learning methods compare to direct preference optimization approaches in terms of complexity and potential for error propagation?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
How do the characteristics of preference-based reinforcement learning methods compare to direct preference optimization approaches in terms of complexity and potential for error propagation?<|EOT|>, we can use the same approach as in the previous section to derive the complexity of the preference-based RL algorithm. We can write the policy as a function of the reward function and the preference function, and then use the result from Section 3.2 to obtain the complexity of the policy. The result is as follows: Theorem 4.1. The complexity of the preference-based reinforcement learning algorithm is O(1/ √ T ).
Theorem 4.1 shows that the complexity of the preferencebased reinforcement learning algorithm is O 1/ √ T , which is the same as the complexity of the direct preference optimization algorithm. This means that the preference-based reinforcement learning algorithms are as complex as the direct preference optimization algorithms, but with the added benefit of being able to learn from arbitrary reward functions.

Error Propagation
In this section, we will show that the preference-based reinforcement algorithms can be used to learn from arbitrary reward function, even if the reward function is not differentiable. We will also show that the error propagation is bounded, which means that the learned policy will not diverge to a policy that is completely unrelated to the reward function.
We will start by defining a new loss function for the preference-based reinforcement learning problem. We will use the same reward function as in the previous section, but we will define a new loss function that penalizes the difference between the preference function and the reward function. The new loss function is defined as follows: where r t is the reward at time t, and p t is the preference at time t. The new loss function penalizes the difference between p t and r t , but does not penalize the difference between p t or r t . This is because we want to encourage the preference function to match the reward function, but we do not want to penalize the policy for being close to the reward function when it is not exactly equal to the reward function. The reason for using the difference between the preference and reward function is that it is easier to optimize than the reward function itself. The reason for using a loss function that penalizes only the difference between the preference or reward function and the actual reward function is that we want to encourage the policy to learn from the reward function, even if it is not differentiable. The new loss function can be written as follows: where r is the reward function, p is the preference function, and r t is the reward function at time t. The advantage of using the new loss function is that it is equivalent to the original reward-based RL algorithm, but with the added bonus of being able to learn with arbitrary reward functions. The advantage of using a loss function that only penalizes the difference between preference and reward function is also that it is easier to implement and optimize than the reward function.
We can now define the preference-based reinforcement learning objective as follows: where L r (p, r) is the loss function defined in Equation 4.1, and α is a learning rate. The preference-based reinforcement learning objective is the same as the reward-based reinforcement learning objective, except that it uses the new loss function defined in Equation (4.1). The preference-based reinforcement learning algorithm can now be written as follows: 1. Initialize the preference function p 0 .

For each time step t:
1. Compute the reward r t using the reward function r.
2. Compute the preference function p t using the preference function p 1. Update the preference function using the update rule in Equation (3.1).
3. Update the policy using the policy update rule in Equation (2.1).

4.
Repeat until convergence.

Theorem 4.2. The preference-based reinforcement algorithm converges to a policy that is close to the optimal policy under the new loss function.
Proof. We will prove this theorem by showing that the preference-based reinforcement algorithm satisfies the local convergence property of the optimal policy under the reward function. The local convergence property of the policy is defined as follows: Definition 4.1. A policy π is said to satisfy the local convergence property if for any reward function r and any initial policy p 0 , the following inequality holds: where π * is the optimal policy under the given reward function r.
We will prove Theorem 4.2 by showing that the preferencebased reinforcement learning policy satisfies the local convergence property. We will start by proving the following lemma: Lemma 4.1. Under the new loss function defined by Equation (4.1), the preference-based reinforcement learning policy satisfies the following inequality: where π is the preference-based reinforcement learningpolicy, and π is the optimal policy under r.
Proof. We will show that the preferencebased reinforcement policy satisfies the following inequality under the new loss function: where r is the given reward function. We can write the preference-based reinforcement learning loss function as follows: where L p (p, r) = r − p 2 2 + αr − p 1 1 is the loss function defined by Equation 4.1. We can rewrite the preference-based reinforcement learning reward
