--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" introduces Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) to improve parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. What is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" introduces Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) to improve parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. What is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), introduced in the paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization", is a method for finetuning a pretrained model. It is based on the idea of using a factorization of the weight matrix to reduce the number of parameters. The paper also introduces a new method called BOFT-BlockDiag, which is a block-diagonal version of BOFT. In this question, we will focus on the BOFT method. We will answer the following questions: 1. What is the intuition behind BOFT? 2. How does BOFT work? 3. What are the advantages of BOFT over OFT? 4. What are the limitations of BOFT? 5. What is the difference between BOFT-BlockDiagonal and BOFT? 6. What is the difference in performance between BOFT-BlockDialg and BOFT? 7. What is the difference of BOFT with other methods like OOF, BOFT-BlockDiags, and OFT? 8. What is the difference with OFT-BlockDiag? 9. What is the difference when using BOFT with a pretrained model vs. a finetuned model? 10. What is the difference if we use BOFT with a pretrained network vs. a finetuning network? 11. What is the difference for the finetuning of a pretrained network vs. the finetuning of an already trained model? 12. What is the difference using BOFT with a finetuned network vs. a pretrained network? 13. What is the difference to OFT? 14. What is the difference from OFT-BlockDiags? 15. What is the difference compared to OFT? 16. What is the difference comparing BOFT-BlockDiagnal to BOFT? 17. What is the difference BOFT-BlockDiagonl vs. BOFT? 18. What is the difference by using BOFT with a pre-trained network vs. a finituned network? 19. What is the difference on the finetuning of pretrained vs. finetuned networks? 20. What is the difference regarding the finetuning of the same network? 21. What is the difference concerning the finetuning of different networks? 22. What is the difference about the finetuning of models with different architectures? 23. What is the difference considering the finetuning of large models? 24. What is the difference after finetuning? 25. What is the difference before finetuning? 26. What is the difference during finetuning? 27. What is the difference at the end of finetuning? 28. What is the difference while finetuning? 29. What is the difference without finetuning? 30. What is the difference among different types of finetuning?<|endoftext|>
