\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### How does FeatLLM handle the parsing ambiguity of natural language rules vs. strict programmatic code?
Question:
In Section 3.2 ('Parsing rules for feature generation'), the paper mentions that generated LLM rules can contain noisy syntactic changes (e.g., 'greater than' instead of '$>$'). The authors propose passing these rules, along with function descriptions, back to an LLM to generate Python code for execution.
My confusion is about the reliability of this step. Since the first step already required an LLM call to *generate* the rules, relying on a second LLM call to *translate* those potentially ambiguous natural language rules into executable code seems risky. Are we just pushing the parsing problem up one more layer of stochasticity? How does the model ensure that a rule like 'age > 50' from Step 1 correctly translates to `if age > 50:` in Step 2 without hallucinating syntax or logic errors? Additionally, is there a mechanism to validate that the generated code actually matches the semantic intent of the original rule before execution?
Answer:
The concern regarding whether FeatLLM is simply "pushing the parsing problem to a different layer of stochasticity" touches on a fundamental trade-off in using generative models for code synthesis, and the paper addresses this not by eliminating the second LLM call, but by leveraging it as a robust semantic bridge that transforms noisy predictions into reliable execution.

At its core, the necessity of the second LLM call arises from the fact that while the first stage uses an LLM to extract linguistic rules based on prior knowledge and data patterns, this output is inherently natural language and susceptible to syntactic variations. As the paper explicitly notes in Section 3.2, the LLM might generate rules where mathematical operators like "greater than" ($>$) are replaced with phrases like "greater than," or where operator precedence might be ambiguous in plain text. Attempting to parse this into strict Python code using rigid regular expressions would be brittle; a small deviation in syntax would break the entire parsing pipeline, leading to silent failures or runtime errors. By passing these natural language rules, along with structured function descriptions (input and output signatures), back to an LLM in the second stage, FeatLLM effectively accepts a "noisy" translation request rather than a "syntactically strict" one. The method relies on the intuition that an LLM, being trained on vast corpora of code-literate text, possesses a strong understanding of semantic equivalence; it can recognize that "if age is greater than 50" carries the exact same intent as `if age > 50`, even if the intermediate text representation wasn't perfectly formatted for direct string-to-code conversion. This approach decouples semantic reasoning from syntactic correctness, allowing the model to focus on generating valid executable logic rather than perfecting markdown-style formatting in the first pass.

However, regarding your worry about hallucinated syntax or logic errors, it is important to clarify that FeatLLM does not claim the generated code is perfect upon generation; instead, it employs a probabilistic ensemble strategy where errors are mitigated through redundancy and subsequent mathematical validation. When multiple rules are generated across different ensemble trials due to varying temperatures or shuffled few-shot examples, some will likely contain logical flaws or syntax errors that result in invalid features or incorrect labels during execution. These erroneous features are not discarded immediately but are instead subjected to a learning process using the downstream linear model described in Section 3.2 ("Inferring Class Likelihood via Rules"). In this phase, FeatLLM trains a simple linear model with non-negative weights ($\mathbf{w}_k$) on top of these binary features derived from the generated rules. The cross-entropy loss function acts as a powerful validator: if a set of rules leads to incorrect predictions compared to the ground-truth labels in the few-shot training set, the optimization process learns weights close to zero for those specific rules (or effectively filters them out), whereas semantically correct and useful rules will accumulate higher weights because they improve prediction accuracy.

Furthermore, by projecting these weights into a positive subspace ($\max(\mathbf{w}_k, 0)$), the framework ensures that only features contributing positively to class likelihood are utilized in final inference. This mechanism answers your question about validation before execution: while individual rule executions might be flawed or noisy, their impact is statistically validated against actual task outcomes during training. If a rule like 'age > 50' fails to translate correctly or introduces noise that hurts performance during training, and fails consistently across multiple ensemble members due to low-temperature inference variance (which helps enforce self-consistency as mentioned in Related Work implications), those components naturally degrade towards irrelevance via their learned weights rather than relying solely on pre-execution static verification. Thus, rather than risking hallucination at every step without recourse, FeatLLM distributes risk across generation diversity and cures it post-hoc through data-driven weight optimization, ensuring that only the most robust and semantically faithful translations contribute significantly to the final model's predictions.