\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### How does FeatLLM exactly balance quality vs. quantity in the 'Reasoning' step described in Eq. (1) of Section 3.1?
Question:
"The proposed approach goes beyond treating LLMs... Instead, we assign them the role of feature engineering... specifically, we introduce a novel in-context learning framework..." The text describes forcing two-step reasoning: first inferring causal relationships using general knowledge without examples, then deriving rules using examples.
The paper states they fixed the number of extracted rules at 10 per class. However, Rule A's confidence might be 99% valid while Rule B's confidence is only 50% valid but still included because we needed to reach '10 rules.'
Does FeatLLM internally rank or score these candidate rules before selecting them to ensure high-quality features? If not simply count-based (which seems plausible given 'no need for model training' claims), how does it distinguish between high-confidence and low-confidence generated rules when constructing the final feature set? Without explicit weighting during generation, aren't we diluting high-quality insights with noisy ones just to meet a quota?
Answer:
The balance between quality and quantity in FeatLLM's reasoning step is not achieved by internally ranking the generated rules before the set of 10 is finalized, but rather through a post-hoc statistical filtering mechanism driven by the linear model trained on the few-shot data.

As detailed in Section 3.1, the prompt explicitly instructs the Large Language Model to generate a fixed number of 10 rules per class without providing an ordering mechanism based on confidence scores (Section 3.1, "Reasoning instruction"). Consequently, there is no internal prioritization where high-confidence rules displace low-confidence ones within the generation step itself to meet the quota. Instead, the framework accepts all 10 generated rules as binary features, creating a feature vector $\mathbf{z}_k^i$ for each class $k$. The true distinction between high-quality and low-quality rules happens immediately after generation during the training phase described in Equation (1). The authors employ a simple linear model with non-negative weights $\mathbf{w}_k$ fitted via cross-entropy loss to optimize Equation (\ref{eq:infer_prob}). In this process, illustrated in Section 3.2 ("Quality of features generated by FeatLLM"), the learned weights act as an automatic importance filter; rules that are spurious or low confidence result in weights that are driven toward zero or remain negligible after training, whereas robust causal relationships yield higher weights. As noted in the analysis section, if a rule's learned weight falls below a specific threshold (e.g., $0.1$ mentioned in the experiments), it is effectively filtered out of contributing meaningfully to the final prediction. Therefore, FeatLLM trades "low-shot learning" to determine rule value rather than relying on heuristic confidence scores during generation, ensuring that while a noisy rule might be included in the initial $R=10$ set, its impact is mathematically neutralized if it lacks statistical relevance within the provided training examples.