--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on butterfly factorization. BOFT is a straightforward extension of the butterfly structure, which is commonly used in linear transforms, to the orthogonal finetuning framework. The butterfly structure is a well-known technique for reducing the number of parameters in linear transforms, and it has been shown to be effective in a variety of applications. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is an established technique for reducing the number parameters in linear transforms, which has been shown to be successful in a variety of applications.

The butterfly structure is a well-established technique for reducing the numberof parameters in linear transforms, as it has been shown to b effective in a variety of contexts. The butterfly structure is used to construct a sparse matrix, which is then used to represent the orthogonal matrix in BOFT. The butterfly structure is composed of a series of sparse matrices that are multiplied together to form a dense matrix. The butterfly structure is constructed by recursively partitioning a square matrix into four quadrants and then repeating the process on each quadrant. The butterfly structure is made up of a collection of sparse matrices that are combined to form a dense matrix.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient method for orthogonal finetuning that is based on the butterfly structure. The orthogonal matrix is represented as a product of sparse matrices in BOFT, which is a significant improvement over the block-diagonal approach. The butterfly structure is employed to create a sparse matrix, which can then be used to represent the orthogonal finetuning matrix. The butterfly structure consists of a series of sparse matrix multiplications that are combined to form the dense matrix. The butterfly matrix is constructed by recursively dividing a square matrix into four submatrices and then repeating the process for each submatrix. The butterfly matrix is made up of a set of sparse matrices that are used to create a dense matrix.

BOft is a parameter-efficient method of orthogonal finetuning that uses the butterfly structure. The matrix of orthogonal finetuning is represented as a productof sparse matrices in BOFT. The orthogonal finetuning matrix is represented as a sparse matrix in BOFT, which represents a significant improvement over the standard block-diagonal approach. BOFT is a method of orthogonal finetuing that is parameter-efficient and uses the butterfly structure. BOFT is a technique for orthogonal finetuning in which the orthogonal matrix is represented as the product of sparse matrices. The butterfly matrix is created by recursively dividing a squarematrix into four submatrices, and then repeating the processfor each submatrix. The matrix of orthogonalfinetuning is represented as the productof sparse matrices in the BOFT method.

BOFT is a method of parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuing that uses the butterfly structure to represent the orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix is expressed as a product of sparse matrix in BOFT. BOFT is a novel method of orthogonal finetueing that is parameter-efficient and utilizes the butterfly structure. BOft is a method of orthogonal fine-tuning that uses the butterfly matrix to represent the orthogonal matrix, which is a significant advancement over the standard block-diagona approach. BOFT is an efficient method of orthogonal finetu that uses the butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix, to represent the orthogonal matrix.

BOFT is an efficient method for orthogonal finetuing that utilizes the butterfly matrix, which consists of a series of spars matrices that are combined to create a dense matrix. BOFT is a new method of orthogonal finetuin that uses the butterfly matrix. BOFT is an effective method of orthogonal finetin that uses the butterfly matrix.

BOFT is the first method of orthogonal finetunin that uses the butterfly structure, which consists of a set of sparse matrix that are combined to forma dense matrix. BOFT uses the butterfly matrix, whic is a sparse matrix, in order to represent the orthogonal matrixin a parameter-efficient manner. BOFT is a perefficient method of orthogonal finetuenin that uses the butterfly matix, which is a sparse matix.

BOFT is a novel method for orthogonal finetuin that utilizes the butterfly matrix. BOft is a new method of orthogonalfinetuning that uses the butterfly matric. BOFT is a highly efficient method of orthogonal finituing that uses the butterfly matrix in order to represent the orthogonalfinetuning matrix. BOFT is the first method for orthogonal finetu that utilizes the butterfly matrix.

BOft is the first method of orthogonafinetuning that uses the butterfli matrix. BOFT is one of the first methods of orthogonal finetuning to use the butterfly matrix. BOF is a novel method of orthogonalefinetuning that uses the butterfl matrix. BOFT is on of the first methods of orthogonalfine tuning that uses the butterfly matrix.


The authors of this paper have developed a new method for parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunin, which they call BOFT. BOFT uses the
