According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', even if the admissions suspension remains in force during the appeal, the order preserves for refugees already admitted: reception and placement services
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', in the stay analysis, the factor that points in opposite directions for the admissions issue and the APA services issue is: likelihood of success
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', the government is hereby directed to reinstate such agreements necessary to provide the reception and placement services described in § 1522 to refugees who have been admitted to the United States:: prior cooperative agreements
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', the majority’s funding discussion implies that § 1522 services were not blocked for lack of appropriations because: appropriations remained available
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', to require reinstatement of service agreements, the majority must reject the contrary reading of § 1522 that treats it as: authorization—not a mandate
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', in light of the government's uncertainty regarding its ability to provide the reception and placement services statutorily mandated under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government was directed to take the following action:: reinstate necessary agreements
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump,' the panel sustained the admissions suspension while still ordering relief for some refugees because the relevant legal difference involved: post-admission reception and placement duties
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', the panel’s § 1182(f) reasoning rejects a merits attack on Executive Order 14163 that consists of: attacking the President’s justifications
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', the panel used a benchmark to define the services that must be provided under the reinstated cooperative agreements:: usual and customary services
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', the later development that would have undercut the panel’s stated reason for reinstating the old cooperative agreements was: securing a new agency
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', if the government had shown it already secured a replacement provider for reception-and-placement services, the stated justification for reinstating the prior agreements would have been weakened by: uncertainty about § 1522 services
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', because the State Department had terminated both domestic-service agreements and overseas-processing agreements, the panel’s reinstatement directive logically targeted: reception and placement agreements
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump,' although the panel stayed the district court’s injunctions "in their entirety" pending appeal, it still left in place the concrete obligation of: reinstatement of necessary cooperative agreements
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', the category of terminated agreements that is not expressly required to be reinstated is: USRAP processing support abroad
According to the opinion 'Pacito v. Trump', compared with the district court’s March 24 injunction, the panel narrowed the reinstatement remedy to: only necessary cooperative agreements
