===== NEW BATCH 1 | input_ids shape=(2, 3860) | attention_mask shape=(2, 3860) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Recent research, such as BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, is paving the way for a new era of 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). In this work, we introduce a 1-bit LLM variant, namely \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, in which every single parameter (or weight) of the LLM is ternary \{-1, 0, 1\}. It matches the full-precision (i.e., FP16 or BF16) Transformer LLM with the same model size and training tokens in terms of both perplexity and end-task performance, while being significantly more cost-effective in terms of latency, memory, throughput, and energy consumption. More profoundly, the 1.58-bit LLM defines a new scaling law and recipe for training new generations of LLMs that are both high-performance and cost-effective. Furthermore, it enables a new computation paradigm and opens the door for designing specific hardware optimized for 1-bit LLMs.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

In recent years, the field of AI has seen a rapid growth in the size and capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). These models have demonstrated remarkable performance in a wide range of natural language processing tasks, but their increasing size has posed challenges for deployment and raised concerns about their environmental and economic impact due to high energy consumption. 

One approach to address these challenges is to use post-training quantization to create low-bit models for inference~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. This technique reduces the precision of weights and activations, significantly reducing the memory and computational requirements of LLMs. The trend has been to move from 16 bits to lower bits, such as 4-bit variants~\cite{gptq, awq}. However, post-training quantization is sub-optimal, even though it is widely used in industry LLMs.

Recent work on 1-bit model architectures, such as BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, presents a promising direction for reducing the cost of LLMs while maintaining their performance. Vanilla LLMs are in 16-bit floating values (i.e., FP16 or BF16), and the bulk of any LLMs is matrix multiplication. Therefore, the major computation cost comes from the floating-point addition and multiplication operations. In contrast, the matrix multiplication of BitNet only involves integer addition, which saves orders of energy cost for LLMs. As the fundamental limit to compute performance in many chips is power, the energy savings can also be translated into faster computation.

In addition to computation, the process of transferring model parameters from DRAM to the memory of an on-chip accelerator (e.g., SRAM) can be expensive during inference. There have been attempts to enlarge SRAM to improve throughput, but this introduces significantly higher costs than DRAM. Compared to full-precision models, 1-bit LLMs have a much lower memory footprint from both a capacity and bandwidth standpoint. This can significantly reduce the cost and time of loading weights from DRAM, leading to faster and more efficient inference.

In this work, we introduce a significant 1-bit LLM variant called \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, where every parameter is ternary, taking on values of \{-1, 0, 1\}. We have added an additional value of 0 to the original 1-bit BitNet, resulting in 1.58 bits in the binary system. \text{BitNet b1.58} retains all the benefits of the original 1-bit BitNet, including its new computation paradigm, which requires almost no multiplication operations for matrix multiplication and can be highly optimized. Additionally, it has the same energy consumption as the original 1-bit BitNet and is much more efficient in terms of memory consumption, throughput and latency compared to FP16 LLM baselines. Furthermore, \text{BitNet b1.58} offers two additional advantages. Firstly, its modeling capability is stronger due to its explicit support for feature filtering, made possible by the inclusion of 0 in the model weights, which can significantly improve the performance of 1-bit LLMs. Secondly, our experiments show that \text{BitNet b1.58} can match full precision (i.e., FP16) baselines in terms of both perplexity and end-task performance, starting from a 3B size, when using the same configuration (e.g., model size, training tokens, etc.).

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} is based on the BitNet architecture, which is a Transformer that replaces \emph{nn.Linear} with \emph{BitLinear}. It is trained from scratch, with 1.58-bit weights and 8-bit activations. Compared to the original BitNet, it introduces some modifications that we summarize below.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} To constrain the weights to -1, 0, or +1, we adopt an \emph{absmean} quantization function. It first scales the weight matrix by its average absolute value, and then round each value to the nearest integer among \{-1, 0, +1\}:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

The quantization function for activations follows the same implementation in BitNet, except that we do not scale the activations before the non-linear functions to the range $[0, Q_b]$. Instead, the activations are all scaled to $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ per token to get rid of the zero-point quantization. This is more convenient and simple for both implementation and system-level optimization, while introduces negligible effects to the performance in our experiments.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

The architecture of LLaMA~\cite{llama, llama2} has been the de-facto backbone for open-source LLMs. To embrace the open-source community, our design of \text{BitNet b1.58} adopts the LLaMA-alike components. Specifically, it uses RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, rotary embedding~\cite{rope}, and removes all biases. In this way, \text{BitNet b1.58} can be integrated into the popular open-source software (e.g., Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}) with minimal efforts.

\section{Results}

We compared \text{BitNet b1.58} to our reproduced FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} in various sizes. To ensure a fair comparison, we pre-trained the models on the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama} for 100 billion tokens. We evaluated the zero-shot performance on a range of language tasks, including ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. We also reported the validation perplexity on the WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4} datasets.

We compared the runtime GPU memory and latency of both \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58}. The results were measured using the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} codebase, which is well-optimized for LLM inference latency on GPU devices. The 2-bit kernel from Ladder~\cite{ladder} is also integrated for \text{BitNet b1.58}. We reported the time per output token, as it is the major cost for inference.

Table~\ref{tab:ppl} summarizes the perplexity and the cost for \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. It shows that \text{BitNet b1.58} starts to match full precision \text{LLaMA LLM} at 3B model size in terms of perplexity, while being 2.71 times faster and using 3.55 times less GPU memory. In particular, \text{BitNet b1.58} with a 3.9B model size is 2.4 times faster, consumes 3.32 times less memory, but performs significantly better than \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B. 

Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot} reports the detailed results of the zero-shot accuracy on the end tasks. We followed the pipeline from \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}} to perform the evaluation. The results show that the performance gap between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} narrows as the model size increases. More importantly, \text{BitNet b1.58} can match the performance of the full precision baseline starting from a 3B size. Similar to the observation of the perplexity, the end-task results reveal that \text{BitNet b1.58} 3.9B outperforms \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B with lower memory and latency cost. This demonstrates that \text{BitNet b1.58} is a Pareto improvement over the state-of-the-art LLM models.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

We further scaled up the model size to 7B, 13B, and 70B and evaluated the cost. Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} illustrates the trends of latency and memory, showing that the speed-up increases as the model size scales. In particular, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B is 4.1 times faster than the \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline. This is because the time cost for \emph{nn.Linear} grows with the model size. The memory consumption follows a similar trend, as the embedding remains full precision and its memory proportion is smaller for larger models. Both latency and memory were measured with a 2-bit kernel, so there is still room for optimization to further reduce the cost.

\paragraph{Energy}

We also estimate the arithmetic operations energy consumption of both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. We focus mainly on the calculation for matrix multiplication, since it contributes the most to the cost of LLMs. Figure~\ref{fig:energy} illustrates the composition of the energy cost. The majority of \text{BitNet b1.58} is INT8 addition calculation, while \text{LLaMA LLM} consists of both FP16 addition and FP16 multiplication. According to the energy model in~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, \text{BitNet b1.58} saves 71.4 times arithmetic operations energy consumption for matrix multiplication on 7nm chips. We further reported the end-to-end energy cost for models with 512 tokens. Our results show that as the model size scales, \text{BitNet b1.58} becomes increasingly more efficient in terms of energy consumption compared to the FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline. This is due to the fact that the percentage of \emph{nn.Linear} grows with the model size, while the cost from other components is smaller for larger models.

\paragraph{Throughput}

We compare the throughput of \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} with 70B parameters on two 80GB A100 cards, using pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe} so that \text{LLaMA LLM} 70B could be run on the devices. We increased the batch size until the GPU memory limit was reached, with a sequence length of 512. Table~\ref{tab:throughput} shows that \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B can support up to 11 times the batch size of \text{LLaMA LLM}, resulting an 8.9 times higher throughput.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} is enabling a new scaling law with respect to model performance and inference cost}. As a reference, we can have the following equivalence between different model sizes in 1.58-bit and 16-bit based on the results in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and \ref{fig:energy}.

\begin{itemize}
    \item 13B BitNet b1.58 is more efficient, in terms of latency, memory usage and energy consumption, than 3B FP16 LLM.
    \item 30B BitNet b1.58 is more efficient, in terms of latency, memory usage and energy consumption, than 7B FP16 LLM.
    \item 70B BitNet b1.58 is more efficient, in terms of latency, memory usage and energy consumption, than 13B FP16 LLM.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

The number of training tokens is a crucial factor for LLMs. To test the scalability of \text{BitNet b1.58} in terms of tokens, we trained a \text{BitNet b1.58} model with 2T tokens following the data recipe of StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, which is the state-of-the-art open-source 3B model. Both models were evaluated on a benchmark that consists of Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}. We reported the zero-shot accuracy in Table~\ref{tab:2t}. For tasks measured with accuracy and normalized accuracy, we take the average of the two. The results of StableLM 3b at 2T tokens are taken directly from its technical report. Our findings shows that \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves a superior performance on all end tasks, indicating that 1.58-bit LLMs also have strong generalization capabilities.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) have proven to be a cost-effective approach for LLMs. While it significantly reduces the computation FLOPs, the high memory consumption and inter-chip communication overhead limit its deployment and application. These challenges can be addressed by 1.58-bit LLMs. Firstly, the reduced memory footprint reduces the number of devices required to deploy MoE models. Moreover, it significantly reduces the overhead of transferring activations across networks. Ultimately, there would be no overhead if the entire models could be placed on a single chip.

\textbf{Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs}

In the era of LLMs, the ability to handle long sequence has become a critical demand. One major challenge for long sequence inference is the memory consumption introduced by the KV caches. \text{BitNet b1.58} represents a significant step towards native support for long sequences, as it reduces the activations from 16 bits to 8 bits, allowing the context length to be doubled given the same resources. This can be further losslessly compressed to 4 bits or even lower for 1.58-bit LLMs, which we leave as future work.

\textbf{LLMs on Edge and Mobile}

The use of 1.58-bit LLMs has the potential to greatly improve the performance of language models on edge and mobile devices. These devices are often limited by their memory and computational power, which can restrict the performance and the scale of LLMs. However, the reduced memory and energy consumption of 1.58-bit LLMs allows them to be deployed on these devices, enabling a wide range of applications that were previously not possible. This can greatly enhance the capabilities of edge and mobile devices and enable new and exciting applications of LLMs. Moreover, 1.58-bit LLMs are more friendly to CPU devices, which are the main processors used in edge and mobile devices. This means that \text{BitNet b1.58} can be efficiently executed on these devices, further improving their performance and capabilities.

\textbf{New Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Recent work like~Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}} has demonstrated promising results and great potential for building specific hardware (e.g., LPUs) for LLMs. Going one step further, we envision and call for actions to design new hardware and system specifically optimized for 1-bit LLMs, given the new computation paradigm enabled in BitNet~\cite{bitnet}.

\end{document}<|im_end|>
------
United States Court of Appeals

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

Argued February 12, 2025 Decided October 3, 2025

No. 24-5168

AMERICA FIRST LEGAL FOUNDATION, APPELLANT

v.

JAMIESON GREER, IN HIS OFFICIAL CAPACITY, APPELLEE

Appeal from the United States District Court

for the District of Columbia (No. 1:22-cv-03576)

Andrew J. Block argued the cause for appellant. With him on the briefs was Reed D. Rubinstein.

David L. Peters, Attorney, U.S. Department of Justice, argued the cause for appellee. With him on the briefs were Brian M. Boynton, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General, at the time the brief was filed, Brett A. Shumate, Acting Assistant Attorney General, Matthew M. Graves, United States Attorney, at the time the brief was filed, Michael

S. Raab, Attorney, Susan K. Ullman, General Counsel, U.S.

Office of Special Counsel, and Hnin Khaing, Senior Litigation Counsel.

GINSBURG, Senior Circuit Judge.

Opinion for the Court filed by Circuit Judge KATSAS.

KATSAS, Circuit Judge: America First Legal Foundation brought this lawsuit to compel the Office of Special Counsel to investigate whether a federal agency arbitrarily denied AFL’s Freedom of Information Act request. The district court dismissed AFL’s claims on the merits. We conclude that AFL lacks Article III standing to pursue the claims.

I

A

The Office of Special Counsel (OSC) is an investigative and prosecutorial agency established to seek “a fair, efficient, and lawfully-conducted Civil Service.” Frazier v. MSPB, 672 F.2d 150, 162 (D.C. Cir. 1982). The Civil Service Reform Act empowers OSC to investigate “prohibited personnel practices” and, if warranted, to bring enforcement proceedings before the Merit Systems Protection Board for corrective action under 5 U.S.C. § 1214 or disciplinary action under 5 U.S.C. § 1215. Section 1214 sets forth procedures to govern corrective actions for prohibited personnel practices, including provisions for notifying the complaining party about the progress of an investigation. See, e.g., 5 U.S.C. § 1214(a)(1)(B)–(D).

Section 1216 empowers OSC to investigate and seek corrective action for certain other forms of misconduct by government employees. As relevant here, it provides that OSC “shall … conduct an investigation of any allegation concerning arbitrary or capricious withholding of information prohibited under section 552”—in other words, withholdings prohibited by the Freedom of Information Act. U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3). For such alleged FOIA violations, OSC “may investigate and seek corrective action under section 1214 and disciplinary action under section 1215 in the same way as if a prohibited personnel practice were involved.” Id. § 1216(c).

FOIA contains its own separate provision for OSC enforcement. It states that if a court (1) orders production of agency records improperly withheld under FOIA, (2) awards attorneys’ fees against the agency, and (3) specifically questions whether the agency “acted arbitrarily or capriciously with respect to the withholding,” then OSC “shall promptly initiate a proceeding to determine whether disciplinary action is warranted against the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for the withholding.” U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(F)(i).

B

As part of its effort to investigate judicial recusals, AFL requested from the Department of Justice certain emails between an outside attorney and the DOJ’s Civil Division. According to AFL, the Civil Division denied the request on the dubious ground that it does not search employee emails for responsive records without the employee’s consent. AFL then sued DOJ under FOIA. In that lawsuit, DOJ has produced— and is continuing to produce—records responsive to the request. The sufficiency of this production is not at issue here.

AFL also asked OSC to investigate DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy of not searching employee emails without consent. It invoked section 1216(a)(3), which states that OSC “shall … conduct an investigation” of arbitrary FOIA withholdings. OSC disclaimed authority to investigate because the three predicates for triggering an investigation under section 552(a)(4)(F)(i) were not satisfied. alleged FOIA policy. It argued that section 1216 mandated such an investigation even if FOIA did not.

The district court ruled in part for AFL but nonetheless dismissed its case for failure to state a claim. The court concluded that section 552(a)(4)(F)(i) does not limit OSC’s power to investigate alleged FOIA violations under section 1216. See Am. First Legal Found. v. Kerner, No. 22-cv-3576, 2023 WL 9546644, at *5 (D.D.C. Sept. 29, 2023). So, the court declared, OSC’s decision not to investigate was based on a legal error. Id. Nonetheless, the court declined to order OSC to investigate any FOIA policy because, in its view, section 1216(c) committed that decision to OSC’s discretion. Id. at *6. The court remanded the case to OSC for further consideration. Id. After OSC again declined to investigate, AFL moved for entry of final judgment, and the district court dismissed its remaining claims. J.A. 68. AFL appealed, and our review is de novo. N. Am. Butterfly Ass’n v. Wolf, 977 F.3d 1244, 1249 (D.C. Cir. 2020).

II

Before reaching the merits, we must consider whether AFL satisfied the requirements for Article III standing, a question bearing on whether the district court had subjectmatter jurisdiction. Steel Co. v. Citizens for a Better Env’t, 523 U.S. 83, 101–02 (1998). Neither party initially addressed standing, so we ordered supplemental briefing on that question.

Article III of the Constitution restricts the federal “judicial Power” to resolving certain “Cases” and “Controversies.” U.S. Const. Art. III, § 2, cl. 1. Standing doctrine follows from this case-or-controversy requirement. Allen v. Wright, 468 U.S. 737, 750 (1984). To have Article III standing, the plaintiff must have suffered an injury caused by the defendant and likely to be redressed by a favorable decision. Lujan v. Defs. of Wildlife, 504 U.S. 555, 560–61 (1992). The injury must be “an invasion of a legally protected interest” that is “concrete and particularized” and “actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.” Id. at 560 (cleaned up). At the motion-to-dismiss stage, a plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting each element of its standing. Food & Water Watch, Inc. v. Vilsack, 808 F.3d 905, 913 (D.C. Cir. 2015).

In its supplemental brief, AFL claims that OSC violated its alleged procedural right to an investigation under section 1216. But the “deprivation of a procedural right without some concrete interest that is affected by the deprivation—a procedural right in vacuo—is insufficient” to confer Article III standing. Summers v. Earth Island Inst., 555 U.S. 488, 496 (2009); see also Citizens for Const. Integrity v. Census Bureau, 115 F.4th 618, 625 (D.C. Cir. 2024). To overcome that problem, AFL contends that OSC’s refusal to investigate has caused it two concrete, informational injuries: First, DOJ has not provided the records that AFL requested through FOIA. Second, OSC has not provided the notices and information required for an investigation under section 1214.

Through this framing, AFL seeks to invoke the relaxed standing requirements that apply to cases involving alleged procedural injury. “Where plaintiffs allege injury resulting from violation of a procedural right afforded to them by statute and designed to protect their threatened concrete interest, the courts relax—while not wholly eliminating—the issues of imminence and redressability, but not the issues of injury in fact or causation.” Ctr. for Law & Educ. v. Dep’t of Educ., 396 F.3d 1152, 1157 (D.C. Cir. 2005); see Fla. Audubon Soc’y v. Bentsen, 94 F.3d 658, 664–65 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (en banc). In such cases, plaintiffs thus must show that the violation of a procedural right “resulted in injury” to some “concrete, particularized interest.” Ctr. for Law & Educ., 396 F.3d at 1157. AFL satisfies neither those requirements nor even a relaxed standard of redressability. Because AFL cannot satisfy even the more relaxed standing requirements for procedural injuries, we need not decide whether these injuries are procedural or substantive.

AFL’s first standing theory is that OSC’s failure to investigate DOJ under section 1216 has prevented AFL from receiving the records it requested under FOIA. This theory suffers from fatal causation and redressability problems. For one thing, any informational injury from DOJ’s refusal to disclose agency records is plainly traceable to DOJ—not OSC. And any causal connection between OSC’s failure to conduct a section 1216 investigation and DOJ’s failure to comply with the FOIA request is too speculative and attenuated to support Article III standing. The alleged causal chain is as follows: If OSC had conducted the assertedly mandatory section 1216 investigation, it might have decided to pursue a corrective action under section 1214, or a disciplinary action under section 1215, against offending DOJ employees. See 5 U.S.C. §§ 1214(b)(3), 1215(a)(1). Then, the MSPB might have decided to sanction those employees for arbitrary FOIA withholdings. See id. §§ 1214(b)(4)(A), 1215(a)(3)(A). Next, DOJ might have decided to produce the requested records. This requires speculation about choices by two government agencies not parties to this lawsuit (the MSPB and DOJ), yet “causation generally cannot rely on speculation about the unfettered choices made by independent actors not before the courts.” FDA v. All. for Hippocratic Med., 602 U.S. 367, 383 (2024) (cleaned up). And it requires speculation about how OSC might choose to exercise its enforcement discretion, which the courts generally may not compel. See Heckler v. Chaney, 470 U.S. 821, 831–32 (1985). Given this speculative chain, AFL has not shown that a favorable judgment here “would very likely spur the next steps necessary to redress” its informational injury. Hecate Energy LLC v. FERC, 126 F.4th 660, 667 (D.C. Cir. 2025). And AFL overlooks the principle that redressability generally turns on how a judgment binds the parties, not whether its rationale “might persuade actors who are not before the court.” Haaland v. Brackeen, 599 U.S. 255, 293–94 (2023). For these reasons, AFL cannot establish standing based on its interest in the information that it requested from DOJ through FOIA.

AFL’s second standing theory—based on its asserted informational interest in the fruits of the OSC investigation itself—fares no better. A plaintiff claiming informational standing suffers a concrete injury if he is denied information that a “statute entitled him to receive.” Am. Soc’y for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals v. Feld Ent., Inc., 659 F.3d 13, 23 (D.C. Cir. 2011) (quoting Zivotofsky ex rel. Ari Z. v. Sec’y of State, 444 F.3d 614, 618 (D.C. Cir. 2006)); see also FEC v. Akins, 524 U.S. 11, 21 (1998); Pub. Citizen v. DOJ, 491 U.S. 440, 448–50 (1989). But here, even if section 1216(a)(3) requires OSC to investigate FOIA violations, it creates no entitlement to receive information. AFL responds that, if OSC conducts the assertedly mandatory investigation under section 1216, it may choose to give AFL notices and information that would be required if OSC were investigating an alleged “prohibited personnel practice” under section 1214. But AFL does not contend that OSC must engraft section 1214 notice requirements onto its section 1216 investigations. To the contrary, it acknowledges cases holding that OSC’s “decision whether to follow section 1214’s procedural requirements” in a section 1216 investigation is “discretionary.” Carson v. U.S. Off. of Special Couns., 633 F.3d 487, 495–96 (6th Cir. 2011). Absent any alleged entitlement to receive information under section 1214, AFL lacks a concrete injury sufficient to support its second standing theory. Likewise, insofar as OSC need not provide section 1214 notice requirements in a section 1216 investigation, a judicial order mandating such an investigation would not be reasonably likely to redress AFL’s second alleged injury.

III

Because AFL lacks Article III standing, we vacate the district court’s judgment and remand with instructions to dismiss for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.

So ordered.
<|im_end|>
------
===== NEW BATCH 2 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: We report a rare case of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) diagnosed concurrently with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), classified as definite BD, and complicated by syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). A man in his 60s presented with fever, headache and mucocutaneous lesions including oral aphthae, folliculitis-like rashes, genital ulcers and hyponatraemia. He was diagnosed with BD based on mucocutaneous findings. Brain MRI showed no abnormalities, and cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed aseptic meningitis, supporting the diagnosis of acute neuro-BD. Laboratory tests confirmed the diagnostic criteria for SIADH. Colchicine monotherapy led to a resolution of the patient’s mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations and hyponatraemia, without the need for corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants. This case suggests a possible association between acute neuro-BD and SIADH and underscores the importance of recognising concurrent neurological and endocrine manifestations in patients with newly diagnosed BD.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a chronic, multisystem inflammatory disorder characterised by recurrent oral and genital ulcers, uveitis and skin lesions. Neurological involvement, referred to as neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), occurs in approximately 10%–20% of patients and typically develops several years after the initial diagnosis. Acute neuro-BD usually presents with meningoencephalitis and parenchymal brain lesions, which commonly involve the brainstem. Although delayed onset is more common, BD and neuro-BD are rarely diagnosed concurrently. In such cases, clinicians should assess both mucocutaneous features and neurological symptoms, including headaches, behavioural changes, psychiatric symptoms and focal deficits.

The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is a well-known cause of hyponatraemia and is often the result of central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, malignancy or certain medications. Given the inflammatory nature of acute neuro-BD, affected patients may be at risk for developing SIADH. Although SIADH has been reported in association with BD patients receiving treatments such as cyclophosphamide, its occurrence in the absence of pharmacological triggers, and caused solely by CNS inflammation related to acute neuro-BD, remains unclear.

We report a rare case in which BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed concurrently, complicated by SIADH. This case highlights the importance of considering SIADH as a potential manifestation of acute neuro-BD, particularly in patients presenting with non-specific CNS symptoms and hyponatraemia.

Case presentation:

An Asian man in his 60s presented to the emergency department with a 3 day history of fever, headache, general malaise, loss of appetite, persistent hiccups and arthralgia affecting the shoulders and ankles. He also reported oral aphthae.

His medical history included type 2 diabetes mellitus, for which he was not receiving treatment because he had limited awareness of his condition and did not maintain appropriate dietary or physical activity habits. His family history was unremarkable, with no relatives affected by BD. He occasionally consumed alcohol, did not smoke, had not travelled recently and had not been exposed to animals or unwell individuals. He worked in the metalworking industry and had not engaged in recent sexual activity.

On examination, he was alert but appeared fatigued. His vital signs were: a temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure of 135/73 mm Hg, a heart rate of 119 beats per minute (regular), a respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute and an oxygen saturation of 96% on room air. Physical examination revealed oral aphthae and folliculitis-like rashes on the face and trunk (figure 1A, B and C). Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examination findings were unremarkable. Manual muscle testing revealed no muscle weakness in the upper or lower extremities. There was no peripheral oedema, and his volume status was clinically assessed as euvolemic. He was admitted for further evaluation.

Investigations:

Initial laboratory tests revealed marked hyponatraemia (124 mmol/L), elevated creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein concentration (CRP) (180 mg/L; reference, <3 mg/L) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (70 mm/hour; reference, <15 mm/hour), with normal renal function. The patient also presented with hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and an elevated HbA1c level of 8.2%, indicating poor glycaemic control. Hepatitis B and C markers were negative.

Endocrine evaluations revealed normal thyroid-stimulating hormone (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 (1.25 ng/dL; reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL) and serum cortisol (42 µg/dL; reference, >6 µg/dL). Serum osmolality was low (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg) and urine osmolality was elevated (900 mOsm/kg, reference, >300 mOsm/kg), with an increased urinary sodium concentration (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), consistent with impaired water excretion. Despite hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) was elevated (22.4 pg/mL). His ECG was normal, and both chest X-ray and CT of the head, chest and abdomen were unremarkable. These findings supported a diagnosis of SIADH.

On day 3, his headache and vertigo worsened. Although there was no neck stiffness or cranial nerve involvement, CNS inflammation was suspected. Brain MRI revealed no significant abnormalities involving the hypothalamus or other brain regions (figure 2). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis revealed mildly elevated opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), increased protein (0.97 g/L) and mild lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). CSF cultures and tests for bacterial and mycobacterial pathogens, as well as herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV) and cryptococcal antigen, were all negative. CSF cytology showed no malignant cells.

Further investigations were performed to evaluate underlying systemic diseases. Tests for sarcoidosis revealed normal lysozyme (5.1 µg/mL; reference 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme levels (11.4 U/L; reference 7–25). Screening for haematological malignancy revealed soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) (704 U/mL; reference, 122–496 U/mL), with negative human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 antibody.

On day 5, a painful scrotum ulcer appeared (figure 1D). In combination with oral aphthae and folliculitis-like rashes, these findings suggested a systemic form of BD. He did not exhibit hypersensitivity to a pinprick. Ophthalmological examination revealed no uveitis. HLA-B51 was positive.

Differential diagnosis:

At the time of presentation, the combination of fever, headache, general malaise and hyponatraemia suggested CNS infection or a systemic inflammatory disorder. Viral meningoencephalitis, particularly caused by HSV or VZV, was suspected initially. However, CSF testing was negative for viral antigen and antibodies, effectively excluding these possibilities. Bacterial meningitis was also considered but ruled out based on the absence of neutrophilic predominance, mild lymphocytic pleocytosis and negative CSF cultures. Tuberculous meningitis was excluded because the results for acid-fast staining and tuberculosis DNA testing were negative.

Primary CNS malignancy was considered, given the neurological symptoms. However, brain MRI showed no abnormal findings, and CSF cytology did not reveal malignant cells. Although the sIL-2R level was mildly elevated, this finding alone was insufficient to support a diagnosis of CNS lymphoma.

Autoimmune diseases were evaluated but excluded due to the absence of characteristic systemic symptoms and negative screening autoantibody test results. Neurosarcoidosis was included in the differential diagnosis because MRI findings may be normal in the early stages, but subsequent laboratory data made this diagnosis unlikely. The mildly elevated sIL-2R level was regarded as a non-specific finding.

This patient was diagnosed with definite BD based on clinical features, including fever and fatigue, oral aphthae (two points), genital aphthosis (two points) and a folliculitis-like rash (one point). According to the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease, he had a total score of five points (≥4 indicates definite disease). In particular, genital aphthosis is considered to be a specific finding of BD, and these findings strongly suggest BD. After excluding infectious, neoplastic and autoimmune causes, a diagnosis of acute neuro-BD was established, with CNS symptoms in the context of mucocutaneous findings.

Treatment:

On day 1 of admission, an underlying inflammatory condition was suspected, although the exact aetiology remained unclear. Empirical antimicrobial therapy with cefepime was initiated after blood cultures were collected, targeting a potential bacterial infection despite the absence of a specific infectious focus.

On day 3, the patient’s headache and vertigo worsened, suggesting CNS inflammation or infection. Acyclovir was administered empirically but was discontinued after tests ruled out HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On day 8, colchicine was started following the diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD. Oral aphthous lesions were treated with topical corticosteroid ointment. Genital ulcers and cutaneous lesions were managed with silver sulfadiazine cream. SIADH was managed conservatively with fluid restriction (<800 mL/day), careful daily monitoring of serum sodium and avoidance of the rapid correction of sodium levels. Hypertonic saline and vasopressin receptor antagonists were not required.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient’s fever resolved, and his appetite improved the day after he started taking colchicine. Over the following 2 weeks, his symptoms, including vertigo, general malaise, hiccups and mucocutaneous lesions, gradually improved. By day 16, serum sodium had normalised to 136 mmol/L, and ADH levels had decreased to 1.8 pg/mL. Myogenic enzyme levels also returned to normal.

Importantly, no systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants were used during treatment. The patient was discharged after a 1 month hospitalisation, during which recovery from the acute phase was achieved, hyponatraemia was carefully monitored and managed, and rehabilitation was provided for the associated decline in physical function. Colchicine therapy was continued for approximately 4 years, with no recurrence of BD or neurological symptoms during that time. After his BD stabilised, biguanide therapy was initiated, and good glycaemic control has since been maintained.

Discussion:

This case involved the simultaneous diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, which is a rare clinical scenario. It also demonstrated that acute neuro-BD can be complicated by SIADH. The resolution of mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations and hyponatraemia following colchicine monotherapy suggests a possible direct association between BD, neuro-BD and SIADH. In patients with BD who present with fever or headache accompanied by hyponatraemia, clinicians should consider acute neuro-BD as a potential underlying cause.

This case is notable for the simultaneous diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, supported by mucocutaneous lesions and CNS involvement. Typically, major organ involvement, such as CNS lesions, occurs around 4 years after the initial diagnosis of BD, and neurological manifestations at presentation are uncommon, occurring in fewer than 5% of patients. Only a minority of patients, approximately 10%, experience headaches that are directly related to neuro-BD. Therefore, the initial recognition of neuro-BD in this case was inherently challenging. Acute neuro-BD most commonly presents as a self-limiting meningoencephalitis, with or without focal neurological deficits. In this patient, brain MRI revealed no specific abnormalities at the typical BD lesion sites, including the hypothalamic region. Acute neuro-BD may present as aseptic meningitis without parenchymal brain lesions, and a normal brain MRI, particularly in the early phase of the disease, does not exclude the diagnosis. This lack of radiological findings further complicated the diagnostic process. Although HLA-B51 testing was performed, it did not contribute to establishing the diagnosis. This aligns with international BD criteria, which do not require HLA-B51 and rely mainly on clinical features. This case highlights the importance of considering neuro-BD when patients with mucocutaneous findings present with non-specific neurological symptoms.

In the initial phase of the differential diagnosis, we prioritised infection as a cause of CNS inflammation because of the combination of fever of unclear origin, neurological symptoms and hyponatraemia; however, we did not identify any specific pathogen. We also considered other causes of CNS inflammation, including connective tissue diseases and malignancies, and included sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancy in the differential diagnosis. Therefore, as part of an initial broad evaluation, we measured autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE and sIL-2R as screening investigations. We performed these tests in a limited manner as part of an exclusion-based approach rather than based on strong clinical suspicion. We found no clinical, radiological or CSF findings to support these diagnoses, and these investigations did not meaningfully contribute to the final diagnosis. ACE has limited sensitivity for sarcoidosis, and although sIL-2R may be informative in the evaluation of malignant lymphoma, mild elevations are non-specific and may reflect inflammatory activity. In this case, the absence of genital ulcers at the early stage of symptom onset made the diagnosis of BD uncertain, leading to a broad differential diagnosis. This diagnostic process highlights the importance of avoiding indiscriminate testing and emphasises that clinicians should perform such investigations only when supported by appropriate clinical features and interpret them with caution.

Although drug-induced SIADH has been reported in patients with BD receiving medications such as cyclophosphamide, the association between acute neuro-BD and SIADH remains poorly understood. Neuro-BD is characterised by CNS inflammation, which may contribute to dysregulated ADH secretion. Several studies have shown that interleukin-6 (IL-6), a proinflammatory cytokine frequently elevated in neuroinflammatory disorders, is associated with increased ADH release. In BD, aberrant monocyte activation leads to spontaneous IL-6 production, and elevated IL-6 levels have been detected in the CSF of patients with acute neuro-BD. These findings suggested that IL-6–mediated inflammation might contribute to SIADH in this setting. Although IL-6 levels were not measured in the serum or CSF in the present case, the markedly elevated serum CRP concentration may reflect an underlying IL-6–mediated inflammatory response. Although SIADH is associated with various conditions, including CNS inflammation, pulmonary disease, malignancy and certain medications, the present findings do not allow a direct causal link between SIADH and acute neuro-BD to be established. The temporal association observed in this case may reflect a non-specific response to CNS inflammation rather than a disease-specific mechanism.

The present case also illustrates the potential complications of hyponatraemia caused by SIADH in the setting of acute neuro-BD. Previous reports have reported that persistent hiccups may serve as an important clinical clue to severe hyponatraemia caused by SIADH secondary to CNS inflammation, including meningitis. In addition, we measured CK as part of the initial evaluation of fever, arthralgia and general fatigue, which may be related to inflammatory or metabolic muscle damage, and this revealed rhabdomyolysis, a recognised but often overlooked complication of severe hyponatraemia that is not routinely investigated. These manifestations are known, yet often underappreciated, clinical implications of profound hyponatraemia. Clinicians should be aware that apparently unrelated symptoms, such as hiccups or rhabdomyolysis, may reflect underlying electrolyte disturbances, particularly in the context of neuroinflammatory conditions.

Corticosteroids are considered the mainstay of treatment for acute neuro-BD, and most patients respond favourably. However, spontaneous resolution has been reported in cases presenting solely with meningoencephalitis-like symptoms. In the present case, colchicine monotherapy improved mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as hyponatraemia. Colchicine exerts anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting neutrophil migration and activation, and by suppressing cytokine production, including IL-1β and IL-6. Although colchicine is widely used for the treatment of mucocutaneous manifestations in BD, systematic reviews have shown that colchicine is ineffective for acute neuro-BD and that immunosuppressive agents are generally required for adequate disease control. In fact, in reported cases, colchicine has been used as an adjunct to corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive therapies, rather than as a monotherapy. Although spontaneous recovery cannot be excluded in this case, our findings suggest that colchicine may be a useful treatment option for acute neuro-BD and related complications such as SIADH, particularly when corticosteroid therapy is undesirable or contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We described a rare case of BD and acute neuro-BD diagnosed concurrently, in which the SIADH complicated the neuro-BD. This case demonstrates that SIADH may occur as a complication of acute neuro-BD, highlighting the importance of clinician awareness of this potential association. Colchicine monotherapy led to rapid improvement in mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological manifestations and hyponatraemia, suggesting that colchicine may be a practical therapeutic option in the early phase of neuro-BD. In patients with BD who present with non-specific CNS symptoms such as fever and headache in combination with hyponatraemia, clinicians should maintain a high suspicion for acute neuro-BD in patients with BD complicated by SIADH.
<|im_end|>
------
Alprazolam 2mg prescription label - No prescription required.

septiembre 12, 2019 en Uncategorized

buy cheap xanax 2mg online legally from canada

The Nursing Sisters had much more responsibility and autonomy, and had more opportunity alprazolam 2mg prescription label to use their alprazolam 2mg prescription label expertise, then civilian nurses. He is often irreverent and rebellious towards authority figures, though he is alprazolam 2mg prescription label a reliable ally and capable leader. For privacy reasons, this site hides everybody's real name and alprazolam 2mg prescription label email. Up purchase carisoprodol 350mg in the uk online to 15% of the general population may experience auditory hallucinations. In general, they require specialized complexometric indicators that alprazolam 2mg prescription label form weak complexes with the analyte. The local police made a delayed investigation; Kennedy sources were soon feeding the press with negative information about Bowman's background, and several mainstream newspapers broke an unwritten rule by publishing her name. Alfred Hooper has an alternative hypothesis for the origin of the Roman numeral system, for small numbers. Submissive and Dominants who participated in their research, felt that this is one of the best things about BDSM. The period following his death consolidated a partial rehabilitation of his legacy among both historians and members of the public. alprazolam 2mg prescription label The main speaker gives a speech remembering some aspect of Burns's life or poetry. Fragmentation are not normally happened inside the APCI source. Some global health scholars have argued that a global, legal buy generic alprazolam 2mg framework is needed to prevent and control antimicrobial resistance. As with similar substances with a sedative-hypnotic mechanism, such as barbiturates and benzodiazepines, withdrawal from alcohol dependence can be fatal if it is not properly managed. Fluconazole is available as a generic medication. This relationship, though, depends on task complexity. Hamdard Foundation and Qarshi Foundation are prominent patrons of research and development in herbal medicines. With print books, readers are increasingly browsing through images of the covers of books on publisher or bookstore websites and selecting and ordering titles online; the paper books are then delivered to the reader by mail alprazolam 2mg prescription label or another delivery service. If the solvent is water, hydration occurs when the charged solute ions become surrounded by water molecules. However, some club drugs are addictive. Organized coupon exchange clubs are commonly found in regions where coupons are distributed. The higher the dose and the longer the drug is taken, the greater Buy generic clonazepam 1mg online with paypal the risk of experiencing unpleasant withdrawal symptoms. Palbociclib has several direct competitors currently on the market or in clinical trials. Runge was born in 1928 in Donaldsonville, Louisiana. In Sweden 480 days of 80% paid paternity leave weeks. Australian Labor Party alprazolam 2mg prescription label opposition in favour of the motion. Clear communication is essential to successful public health practice at every level of the ecological model: Activity against Gram-negative bacteria includes Neisseria meningitidis, some Haemophilus influenzae, and some of the Enterobacteriaceae. Simple two-stroke engines are lubricated by oil mixed into the fuel or injected into the induction stream as a spray. A swelling of the face appears, which comes and goes, and one notices an overall inflammatory color noticeable as a strong redness on both cheeks and around both eyes. A related issue is the inclusion of pregnant women in clinical studies. VAS has become a concern for veterinarians and cat owners alike and has resulted in changes in recommended vaccine protocols. It manufactures medicines for prevention and treatment of various health related alprazolam 2mg prescription label problems. The presence of strong oxidising alprazolam 2mg prescription label agents or formaldehyde can cause false positives. The other way is the placebo changing the patient's perception of pain. From 1997 to 2001, she was married to Mark Jackson. The strong discussion supplied the women with the necessary tools and ideas that lead to the creation of their book that addressed issues alprazolam 2mg prescription label surrounding sexuality and abortion. While some progress is being made in reducing child marriage, particularly for girls under fifteen, the prospects are daunting. Many former club officials and some athletes found themselves charged after the dissolution of the country. This triggers the hiccup, which creates suction in the chest, pulling air from the stomach up and out through the mouth, effectively burping the animal. Ingestion of large amounts of potassium compounds can lead to hyperkalemia strongly influencing the cardiovascular system. Pharmacy technicians support the work of pharmacists and Buy drug xanax 2mg online with mastercard other health professionals by performing a variety of pharmacy related functions, including dispensing prescription drugs and other medical alprazolam 2mg prescription label Order carisoprodol 350mg devices to patients and instructing on their use. Demographers believe that without purchase klonopin no prescription social and economic reform, rural to urban migration will increase, resulting in the expansion of urban centers. The Olympic athletics programme greatly expanded over the next decades, and track and field contests remained among the Games' most prominent. Insurance contracts that fit certain criteria are subsidised with 60 Euro per year. Depending on how it is defined, 2% to 40% of people have sciatica at some point in time. The most order meridia online legit common side effects during treatment with vasopressin are dizziness, angina, chest pain, abdominal cramps, heartburn, nausea, vomiting, trembling, fever, water intoxication, pounding alprazolam 2mg prescription label sensation in cheap tramadol online in usa the head, diarrhea, purchase carisoprodol nausea, vomiting, sweating, paleness, and flatulence. These are comprehensive on-site evaluations of the programs. order soma
Purchase generic alprazolam tablets online Purchase zolpiem in canada Cheap ambien 10mg in houston Buy drug Sibutramine 15mg in japan

cheap xanax online europe

It didn't make me any better. Researchers Samuel and Cynthia Janus surveyed American adults aged 18 and over by distributing 4,550 questionnaires; 3,260 were returned and 2,765 were usable. Gerrit Smith made women's suffrage a plank in the Liberty Party platform. Part D covers self-administered prescription drugs. Stanmore and later endowed the Wigram Allen Scholarship for boys proceeding to matriculation. We accept responsibility for our past mistakes. Their angle is adjusted by an actuator to block or increase air flow to the turbine. Dopamine, histamine, serotonin, and acetylcholine are neurotransmitters thought to produce vomiting. Augustine, however, Buy alprazolam 1mg with paypal mentions copulation, because such like resolution is the ordinary and natural result thereof. Physiologically, certain wavelengths alprazolam 2mg prescription label of light, used with or without accompanying topical chemicals, are thought to alprazolam 2mg prescription label kill bacteria and decrease the size and activity of the glands alprazolam 2mg prescription label that produce sebum. He is a self-taught artist, working in oil and graphite. Studies on sexism in science and technology fields have produced conflicting results. Measures can be taken to limit polypharmacy to its truly safe xanax online legitimate and appropriate needs. Having a mental illness can seriously impair, temporarily or permanently, the mental functioning of a person. The extra fuel does not burn; its only purpose is to evaporate to absorb heat. This group specializes in school-aged health specifically. Her father and mother had split up by the time she reached the age of five. This is compared to only 8% of Canadians who skipped doses or failed to fill a prescription in the same year because of the cost of prescription medications. Mexican officials denied any corruption in the government's treatment of drug cartels. Physicians through the end of the first millennium did not attempt back surgery and alprazolam 2mg prescription label recommended watchful waiting. The Federation represents over 1,500 privately owned and managed hospitals. He studied the phenomenon for many where to purchase alprazolam 2mg online legitimate years. Men's rights activists are concerned with false accusations of rape and sexual assault, and desire to protect men from the negative consequences of false accusations. Baxters alprazolam 2mg prescription label stop if they detect a human in the way of their robotic arms and have prominent off switches. An atrophic scar takes the form of a sunken recess in the skin, which has a pitted appearance. By the late 1970s, newer machines had reached all of the conditions needed for practical fusion, although not at the same time and in a single reactor. His parents separated and eventually divorced. Paramilitary groups work alongside cartels to provide protection. A bout of hiccups, in general, resolves itself without intervention, although many home remedies are often used to attempt to shorten the duration. Whenever it is available as alprazolam 2mg prescription label an option, the alprazolam 2mg prescription label alprazolam 2mg prescription label recommended response to eating problems is having a caretaker Clonazepam side effect do assisted feeding for the person. Because of alprazolam 2mg prescription label the lack of HIV cases in that alprazolam 2mg prescription label area beforehand and the youth of many but not all of those affected, the relative unavailability in the local area of safe needle exchange programs and of treatment centers capable of alprazolam 2mg prescription label dealing with long-term health needs, HIV care, and drug addiction during the initial phases of the outbreak, it was not initially adequately contained and dealt with until those were set up by the government, and acute awareness of the issue spread. However, there is one major difference between most drugs and alcohol metabolites in the way in which they enter into the hair: Compression results in where to buy alprazolam 1mg no prescription damage to alprazolam 2mg prescription label the myelin alprazolam 2mg prescription label sheath and manifests as delayed latencies and slowed conduction velocities However, normal electrodiagnostic studies do not preclude the presence of carpal tunnel syndrome, as a threshold of nerve injury must be reached before buy generic alprazolam 2mg online in the uk study results become abnormal and cut-off values for abnormality are variable. Her dishevelled appearance during and after a scheduled club night in September sparked new rumours of a relapse. Common bacteria responsible for non-acute bacterial conjunctivitis are Staphylococci, Streptococci, Haemophilus sp. It is not recommended in people who have had previous anaphylaxis to a penicillin. Pharmacists monitor the health and progress of patients to ensure the safe and effective use of medication. National Health insurance is designed for people who are not eligible alprazolam 2mg prescription label to be members of any employment-based health insurance program. Beginning in 2015, Canada has seen a widespread number of fentanyl overdoses. Alternatively, evaluation may occur continuously throughout the entire decision process. Many polyphenolic extracts, such as from grape seeds, olives or maritime Tramadol 50mg prescription for dogs pine bark, are sold as dietary supplements buy alprazolam china and cosmetics without order xanax in korea proof or legal health claims for beneficial health effects. Common side effects include dizziness, feeling tired, vomiting, and hallucinations. It can also help them with homework and class work. After no one answered, he began shooting people who were nearby. This allows a properly designed reactor to generate some of the internal current needed to twist the magnetic field lines without having to supply it from an external source. The second Sunnyvale store was designed to look like the interior of a giant computer; the walls were adorned with simulated circuit components, and the floor resembled a giant printed circuit board. buy generic alprazolam 1mg in hanoi

xanax online

Purchase ultram memphis Where to purchase alprazolam 2mg no prescription Ativan 2mg prescription guidelines Zolpidem 10mg for order Where to buy xanax 1mg online Want to buy adipex in hanoi<|endoftext|>Hard Time Dealing With Allergies? Try These Tips?

Have allergy issues caused you to stay inside on those nice sunny days? While many people with allergies end up suffering in silence, this certainly doesn't mean you have to do the same. There are numerous allergy triggers in the air that are capable of causing a wide range of symptoms. Read the following article to find out what you can do to deal with your allergy symptoms.

For safety's sake, remember to use over-the-counter antihistamine when you are at home. Test in small doses to ensure that the medicine doesn't impair you in any negative way. Even if the product packaging does not contain any warnings, you should take the first several doses when you aren't having to drive or do anything dangerous.

Choose flooring other than rugs or wall-to-wall carpet in your home. Rugs and carpeting are often never really clean, even if they look like they are. They collect dust mites, dust and other allergens that cause you suffering. Floors that can be mopped and cleaned much more easily than carpet are best for allergy sufferers.

Some people are allergic to creepy little pests called dust mites. These microscopic creatures dwell within pillows and mattresses and make their meals on skin flakes that shed and accumulate. Eww! If you want to get rid of these little buggers, make sure that you consistently clean your bedding, carpet and clothing. Wash your bedding in piping hot water every week; it will kill dust mites.

Check to see that your restroom is ventilated properly to reduce the risk of mildew and mold. This sort of allergen likes an environment that is warm and damp. After you shower, use a fan and hang up wet washcloths and towels. If your bathroom has a window, open it an inch or two to bring in clean, dry air.

Avoid anything that has dye in it. Sometimes, even toilet tissue contains dye from patterns and color. Try using products made of just white paper to see if it helps.

Keep the air inside your home free of allergens by keeping the windows closed. Pollen can easily get inside the home through open windows, and cause your allergy symptoms to escalate. Change out dirty air conditioning filters often to keep them as clean as possible to reduce allergens from circulating inside your dwelling.


Many people who suffer with allergies use a humidifier when going to sleep, as they are beneficial to keeping your airways moist. However, it should be noted that humidifiers could encourage mold growth. Use a saline spray at bedtime to moisten nasal passages instead.

If you are prone to allergies, consider replacing natural or feather-filled pillows with ones made of synthetic materials. You will find that dust mites will look to these pillows only if natural materials are present. Even though you must still wash them to rid all the allergens and dust, it is much better for your sleep.

Use a laundry detergent that has a light fragrance. It is not uncommon to love the scent the air and sun leave on air dried clothes. It may also cause pollen to collect on them. This is not a good idea for people that have sensitivities to fragrances or dyes.

If it has been a long time since you've had a holiday, you may feel like rushing to the first available place! If someone you know suffers from allergies, especially someone close in your family, this might be a risky move. Before choosing a destination, do your homework to find information about weather conditions, pollen counts and other potential allergy triggers.

Be sure the area immediately around you is perfectly clean. An allergy sufferer's allergies tend to be triggered by several different allergens, so keeping your surroundings clean will reduce the chances of you coming into contact with an allergen. In order to lessen your allergy symptoms, make sure that your immediate surroundings are as clean as possible.

Allergy symptoms can be greatly alleviated by boosting Vitamin C levels. This vitamin helps by boosting your immune system and is a natural antihistamine. To fight back against different allergies, it is recommended that you receive around 1000mg of this vitamin daily. Furthermore, foods that are high in Omega-3 are also helpful in treating allergy symptoms.

Remind doctors and nurses if you have an allergy to latex, they can overlook this at times. Always take a moment to mention your allergy. Even a momentary touch from an item containing latex can leave you itchy and uncomfortable.

Many people that live in large, urban areas develop allergic reactions to the high levels of congestion and smog. If you are a city-dweller who suffers from congestion, pay close attention to the way you feel when you are in suburban or rural areas. You may find that exhaust and smog--not allergies--are responsible for your congestion.

If you are experiencing allergy symptoms because of your pet, regular pet bathing and grooming may be helpful. The allergen at issue here is pet dander, and you will run into a less of it after your pets have had a good wash. If at all possible, have a family member bathe your pet; doing it yourself could incite an allergy attack. As a last resort, have someone take your pet to a groomer.

When someone in your family is allergic to a certain kind of food, it is in everyone's best interest to entirely avoid bringing that food into the house; this prevents cross-contamination. Keeping foods out of the house that could trigger serious allergic reactions removes the chance of someone accidentally ingesting them.

After reading this article, you should realize that living with allergies does not mean that you have to suffer. Remember the advice shared here with you so that your next allergy attack doesn't affect you so readily.

Go Back<|endoftext|>Sunday, 2 February 2020

Time is NOT the Magic Ingredient.

"He turns paupers into princes and seats them on their royal thrones of honor." - Psalm 113:8

God does not see or view us as we see and view ourselves.
The reflection we see in the mirror each morning is not the reflection God sees you.
God sees us as we are. In Christ.
God sees us as His son or daughter.
God sees us as a joint-heir with Christ.
God sees us seated in heavenly places in Christ.
God sees us glorified in Christ.

God does not see us as incomplete.
Time is Not a Magic ingredient that brings about completion.
Time is Not an an easy answer to cover up our lack of understanding.

For many, many years intellectuals have used the element of time to explain away things that they cannot explain.
Scientists believe the unbelievable idea of evolution by adding the magic ingredient of 'time.'
Just say that everything happened over 'billions and billions ' of years and anyone will believe it!
And this magic ingredient has weaved it's way into our Christian thinking.
Just because we don't feel or experience it we say that it has not happened and that in time we will!

Today you are In Christ Jesus.
You are righteous
You are
------
===== NEW BATCH 3 | input_ids shape=(2, 3982) | attention_mask shape=(2, 3982) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Emerging developments such as BitNet~\cite{bitnet} are ushering in innovative directions for 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). In this study, we propose a ternary 1-bit LLM variant called \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, where each model parameter (weight) can take values from the set \{-1, 0, 1\}. This approach demonstrates that, for an equivalent model size and number of training tokens, our ternary model can achieve perplexity and downstream task results on par with its full-precision counterparts (FP16 or BF16 Transformers), yet offers remarkable reductions in latency, memory usage, throughput requirements, and energy demands. Significantly, this 1.58-bit LLM formulation establishes a novel scaling law and provides a new methodology for training future high-performing, cost-efficient LLMs. Additionally, it sets the stage for an alternative computational paradigm, enabling specialized hardware architectures optimized specifically for 1-bit LLMs.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

Over the past few years, there has been substantial progress in the development and scalability of Large Language Models (LLMs) within the AI domain. While these models exhibit impressive abilities across numerous natural language processing applications, their ever-expanding scale introduces difficulties in practical implementation and intensifies worries about both ecological and financial costs arising from elevated energy requirements.

A common strategy for tackling these issues involves applying post-training quantization to produce low-bit models suitable for inference~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. By lowering the bit-width of both weights and activations, this method substantially decreases the memory footprint and computational demands of LLMs. Recent developments have focused on transitioning from 16-bit representations down to more compact 4-bit formats~\cite{gptq, awq}. Nevertheless, despite its prevalence in production-level LLM deployments, post-training quantization remains a sub-optimal solution.

Recent advancements in 1-bit model designs, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, indicate a valuable approach for lowering the computational expenses of LLMs without sacrificing effectiveness. Standard LLM implementations utilize 16-bit floating-point representations (such as FP16 or BF16), and matrix multiplication accounts for most of their computational workload. Consequently, the predominant source of computational overhead arises from floating-point arithmetic operations. In comparison, BitNet restricts its matrix multiplications to integer addition, resulting in substantial reductions in energy consumption for LLMs. Given that power consumption often sets the upper bound for computation on many hardware platforms, these energy reductions may also contribute to increased processing speed.

Beyond computation, moving model parameters from DRAM into the on-chip accelerator's memory, such as SRAM, can impose substantial overhead during inference. Efforts to increase the size of SRAM for enhanced throughput often result in costs that greatly exceed those of DRAM. 1-bit LLMs, relative to their full-precision counterparts, demand considerably less memory, both in terms of storage capacity and bandwidth. As a result, transferring weights from DRAM becomes less resource-intensive and quicker, enabling more rapid and cost-effective inference.

In this study, we present a notable 1-bit LLM variation termed \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, wherein each model parameter is ternary, assuming values from the set \{-1, 0, 1\}. By incorporating an additional 0 value into the standard 1-bit BitNet framework, the model operates at 1.58 bits within the binary numeral system. \text{BitNet b1.58} preserves all major strengths of its 1-bit predecessor, including its novel computation scheme that almost entirely eliminates multiplication in matrix operations, allowing for extensive optimization. It also maintains the same energy usage as the original 1-bit BitNet, while offering superior efficiency in memory, throughput, and latency relative to FP16 LLM baselines. Moreover, \text{BitNet b1.58} introduces two key improvements. First, it enhances representational power by explicitly supporting feature filtering—enabled by permitting weight values of 0—which considerably boosts the capabilities of 1-bit LLMs. Second, experimental results indicate that, beginning at the 3B parameter scale, \text{BitNet b1.58} is able to achieve parity with full-precision (i.e., FP16) baselines on both perplexity and downstream task metrics under comparable configurations (e.g., model size and training data volume).

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} utilizes the BitNet architecture, a type of Transformer where the traditional \emph{nn.Linear} layer is substituted with \emph{BitLinear}. The model is initialized and trained from the beginning, employing weights quantized to 1.58 bits and activations at 8 bits. It departs from the original BitNet by incorporating several adjustments, outlined as follows.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} To ensure weights are limited to the set \{-1, 0, +1\}, we employ the \emph{absmean} quantization function. This function initially normalizes the weight matrix by dividing by its mean absolute value, followed by rounding each entry to its nearest value in \{-1, 0, +1\}:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

The quantization method applied to activations mirrors that utilized in BitNet, with the exception that, prior to the application of non-linear functions, activations are not rescaled to the $[0, Q_b]$ interval. Rather, for each token, activations are mapped to the range $[-Q_b, Q_b]$, thereby eliminating the necessity for zero-point quantization. This adjustment streamlines both the implementation and broader system optimization processes, and according to our experimental results, has only a minimal impact on performance.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

The LLaMA~\cite{llama, llama2} architecture has become the standard foundation for many open-source LLM initiatives. To align with and support this ecosystem, \text{BitNet b1.58} has been engineered with LLaMA-inspired structural elements. Notably, our model incorporates RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, rotary embedding~\cite{rope}, and excludes all bias terms. This design choice ensures that \text{BitNet b1.58} can be readily deployed within major open-source platforms such as Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}, requiring minimal adaptation.

\section{Results}

We conducted a comparative analysis between \text{BitNet b1.58} and our re-implemented FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} across multiple parameter scales. Both models underwent pre-training for 100 billion tokens using the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama} to maintain experimental parity. For evaluation, we assessed zero-shot generalization on several language understanding benchmarks, including ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. Additionally, we measured validation perplexity using the WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4} corpora.

We evaluated both the runtime GPU memory usage and inference latency for \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58}. The measurements were obtained utilizing the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} framework, an inference engine tailored for low-latency LLM execution on GPUs. Additionally, for \text{BitNet b1.58}, we incorporated the Ladder~\cite{ladder} 2-bit kernel into our testing environment. To highlight the dominant expense in inference, we present the results in terms of time consumed per generated output token.

Table~\ref{tab:ppl} presents both the perplexity values and computational costs associated with \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. The results indicate that, in terms of perplexity, \text{BitNet b1.58} reaches parity with the full precision \text{LLaMA LLM} at a 3B parameter scale, yet achieves 2.71 times higher speed and utilizes 3.55 times less GPU memory. Notably, the 3.9B variant of \text{BitNet b1.58} is 2.4 times faster, requires 3.32 times less memory, and delivers considerably superior performance compared to the 3B version of \text{LLaMA LLM}.

Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot} presents a comprehensive breakdown of zero-shot accuracy across the evaluated end tasks. For this assessment, we adhered to the methodology outlined by \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}}. The data indicate that, with increased model size, the difference in performance between \text{BitNet b1.58} and the \text{LLaMA LLM} diminishes. Notably, from the 3B model size onwards, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves parity with the full-precision baseline. Echoing the trends observed in perplexity, the outcomes on end tasks highlight that \text{BitNet b1.58} at 3.9B surpasses \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B, all while requiring less memory and offering reduced latency. These results underscore \text{BitNet b1.58} as a Pareto improvement over current state-of-the-art LLMs.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

We extended our experiments by increasing the model sizes to 7B, 13B, and 70B, subsequently analyzing the associated costs. As shown in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy}, both latency and memory utilization exhibit clear scaling patterns, with acceleration gains becoming more pronounced as model size grows. Notably, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B demonstrates a 4.1-fold improvement in speed compared to the \text{LLaMA LLM} reference model. This improvement is attributed to the fact that the computational overhead of \emph{nn.Linear} increases with larger model sizes. Memory usage follows a comparable pattern because, although embeddings are maintained in full precision, their relative memory footprint diminishes as model scale increases. All measurements for latency and memory employed a 2-bit kernel, indicating that additional cost reductions are feasible with further optimization.

\paragraph{Energy}

We additionally analyze the energy requirements associated with arithmetic operations for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. The analysis predominantly emphasizes matrix multiplication, as it represents the principal energy expenditure in large language models. Figure~\ref{fig:energy} displays the breakdown of energy consumption. Most of the energy consumed by \text{BitNet b1.58} originates from INT8 addition operations, whereas \text{LLaMA LLM} expends energy primarily on FP16 additions and multiplications. Referencing the energy estimation model from~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, \text{BitNet b1.58} demonstrates a 71.4-fold reduction in arithmetic operations energy for matrix multiplications on 7nm technology compared to its counterpart. We extend this analysis by providing end-to-end energy consumption measurements for models processing 512 tokens. Our findings indicate that as model sizes increase, \text{BitNet b1.58} exhibits a greater relative advantage in energy efficiency over the FP16-based \text{LLaMA LLM}. This trend emerges because the proportion of energy devoted to \emph{nn.Linear} operations rises with larger models, while the contribution from other parts becomes less significant as model scale increases.

\paragraph{Throughput}

We evaluate the throughput performance of \text{BitNet b1.58} and the 70B-parameter \text{LLaMA LLM} across two 80GB A100 GPUs, employing pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe} to enable execution of the \text{LLaMA LLM} 70B model. By progressively increasing the batch size to the maximum capacity permitted by the GPU memory at a fixed sequence length of 512, we observed notable differences. As presented in Table~\ref{tab:throughput}, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B accommodates a batch size up to 11 times larger than that of \text{LLaMA LLM}, which translates to an 8.9-fold improvement in throughput.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} introduces a novel scaling relationship between model accuracy and inference resource demands}. By examining Figures~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and \ref{fig:energy}, we observe the following correspondences for model size efficiency when comparing 1.58-bit and 16-bit representations:

\begin{itemize}
    \item The 13B BitNet b1.58 outperforms the 3B FP16 LLM regarding latency, memory footprint, and energy usage.
    \item The 30B BitNet b1.58 demonstrates greater efficiency than the 7B FP16 LLM across latency, memory requirements, and energy consumption.
    \item The 70B BitNet b1.58 surpasses the 13B FP16 LLM in latency, memory usage, and energy savings.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

The quantity of training tokens plays a significant role in the effectiveness of LLMs. To assess how \text{BitNet b1.58} performs when scaled with respect to token count, we trained a \text{BitNet b1.58} model on 2T tokens, adhering to the data preparation strategy employed by StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, which represents the current leading open-source 3B model. Evaluation for both models was conducted using a suite of benchmarks, including Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}. The zero-shot accuracy outcomes are summarized in Table~\ref{tab:2t}. For tasks assessed with both accuracy and normalized accuracy metrics, we averaged the two scores. The results for StableLM 3B trained on 2T tokens are referenced from its official technical report. Our analysis demonstrates that \text{BitNet b1.58} consistently outperforms its counterpart across all evaluated tasks, suggesting that 1.58-bit LLMs are also highly capable of generalizing to diverse tasks.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architectures have demonstrated notable cost-efficiency for large language models (LLMs). Although MoE methods decrease computation in terms of FLOPs, their utility is constrained by substantial memory demands and considerable inter-chip communication requirements. The advent of 1.58-bit LLMs offers solutions to these obstacles. The decreased memory usage permits MoE models to be deployed across fewer devices. In addition, lower memory requirements translate to a marked reduction in the communication overhead for transmitting activations between nodes. Ideally, if the whole model fits within the memory of one chip, communication overhead is eliminated altogether.

\textbf{Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs}

With the rise of LLMs, efficiently managing extended input sequences has emerged as a key requirement. A significant obstacle in processing lengthy sequences is the substantial memory usage caused by KV cache storage. \text{BitNet b1.58} makes considerable progress toward enabling native support for longer contexts by lowering activation precision from 16 bits to 8 bits. This reduction permits a doubling of context window length while maintaining identical resource constraints. Moreover, activations can potentially be compressed losslessly to 4 bits or below, particularly for 1.58-bit LLMs—a direction we propose for future investigation.

\textbf{LLMs on Edge and Mobile}

Deploying 1.58-bit LLMs presents a significant opportunity to boost the effectiveness of language models operating on edge and mobile platforms. Such platforms frequently encounter constraints in both memory and processing capacity, which can hamper the implementation and efficiency of traditional LLMs. With their notably lower demands for memory and power, 1.58-bit LLMs can be feasibly integrated into these environments, unlocking new possibilities for applications that were once infeasible. As a result, this advancement has the potential to substantially broaden the functionality of edge and mobile devices, fostering innovative uses of LLMs. In addition, 1.58-bit LLMs are especially compatible with CPUs—the primary type of processor in edge and mobile contexts—rendering it possible for models such as \text{BitNet b1.58} to operate with heightened efficiency and further expand the computational capabilities of these devices.

\textbf{New Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Recent developments such as~Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}} have shown encouraging outcomes and significant promise in constructing specialized hardware, such as LPUs, tailored for LLMs. Building on these advancements, we propose and advocate for the creation of novel hardware and system architectures that are explicitly fine-tuned for 1-bit LLMs, taking advantage of the innovative computation paradigm introduced in BitNet~\cite{bitnet}.

\end{document}<|im_end|>
------
United States Court of Appeals

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

Argued February 12, 2025 Decided October 3, 2025

No. 24-5168

AMERICA FIRST LEGAL FOUNDATION, APPELLANT

v.

JAMIESON GREER, IN HIS OFFICIAL CAPACITY, APPELLEE

Appeal from the United States District Court

for the District of Columbia (No. 1:22-cv-03576)

Andrew J. Block argued the cause for appellant. With him on the briefs was Reed D. Rubinstein.

David L. Peters, an attorney with the U.S. Department of Justice, presented oral argument on behalf of the appellee. Accompanying him on the briefs were Brian M. Boynton, who served as Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General when the brief was submitted; Brett A. Shumate, in the capacity of Acting Assistant Attorney General; and Matthew M. Graves, who held the position of United States Attorney at the time of filing. Michael

S. Raab, Attorney, Susan K. Ullman, General Counsel, U.S.

Office of Special Counsel, and Hnin Khaing, Senior Litigation Counsel.

GINSBURG, Senior Circuit Judge.

Opinion for the Court filed by Circuit Judge KATSAS.

KATSAS, Circuit Judge: America First Legal Foundation initiated this action seeking to require the Office of Special Counsel to examine if a federal agency unjustifiably rejected AFL’s request under the Freedom of Information Act. The district court ruled against AFL’s claims on substantive grounds. We determine, however, that AFL does not have Article III standing to advance these claims.

I

A

The Office of Special Counsel (OSC) functions as an investigative and prosecutorial body created to ensure “a fair, efficient, and lawfully-conducted Civil Service.” Frazier v. MSPB, 672 F.2d 150, 162 (D.C. Cir. 1982). Under the authority granted by the Civil Service Reform Act, the OSC is tasked with investigating “prohibited personnel practices.” If its investigation determines further action is necessary, OSC may initiate enforcement cases before the Merit Systems Protection Board to secure corrective measures pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 1214 or pursue disciplinary sanctions in accordance with 5 U.S.C. § 1215. Section 1214 delineates the procedural framework for addressing prohibited personnel practices, which includes requirements for keeping complainants apprised of the investigation’s status. See, for instance, 5 U.S.C. § 1214(a)(1)(B)–(D).

Section 1216 grants OSC the authority to investigate and pursue remedies for specific additional categories of employee misconduct within the government. Pertinently, it mandates that OSC “shall … conduct an investigation of any allegation concerning arbitrary or capricious withholding of information prohibited under section 552”—that is, instances of information being withheld in violation of the Freedom of Information Act. U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3). When such alleged breaches of FOIA occur, OSC is authorized to “investigate and seek corrective action under section 1214 and disciplinary action under section 1215 in the same manner as if a prohibited personnel practice were implicated.” Id. § 1216(c).

FOIA includes a distinct section dedicated to OSC enforcement. According to this provision, when a court (1) directs the release of agency records that were wrongfully withheld under FOIA, (2) imposes attorneys’ fees on the agency, and (3) expressly raises concerns regarding whether the agency’s withholding was “arbitrary or capricious,” OSC is required to “promptly initiate a proceeding to determine whether disciplinary action is warranted against the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for the withholding.” U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(F)(i).

B

In its inquiry into judicial recusals, AFL submitted a request to the Department of Justice seeking specific email correspondence exchanged between an external attorney and the DOJ’s Civil Division. AFL contends that the Civil Division rejected this request on questionable grounds, namely, that it refrains from searching employee email accounts for relevant documents without first obtaining the consent of those employees. Following this denial, AFL filed a lawsuit against DOJ pursuant to FOIA. In response to the litigation, DOJ has already provided—and continues to provide—documents that are responsive to AFL’s request. The adequacy of this ongoing production is not a matter for consideration in this context.

AFL further requested that OSC examine the DOJ’s purported FOIA practice of refusing to search employee emails without their permission. Citing section 1216(a)(3), which requires OSC to “conduct an investigation” into arbitrary FOIA denials, AFL emphasized this statutory duty. However, OSC declined to initiate an investigation, asserting that the prerequisites outlined in section 552(a)(4)(F)(i) necessary to commence such an inquiry had not been met in relation to the alleged FOIA policy. OSC also maintained that even though AFL referenced section 1216, it did not obligate OSC to investigate if the conditions prescribed by FOIA itself were lacking.

The district court partially ruled in AFL’s favor but ultimately dismissed the case on the grounds that it failed to state a viable claim. The court determined that section 552(a)(4)(F)(i) does not curtail OSC’s authority to pursue investigations of purported FOIA violations under section 1216. See Am. First Legal Found. v. Kerner, No. 22-cv-3576, 2023 WL 9546644, at *5 (D.D.C. Sept. 29, 2023). Accordingly, the court found that OSC’s refusal to investigate stemmed from an erroneous interpretation of the law. Id. However, the court declined to mandate that OSC investigate any FOIA-related policy, reasoning that section 1216(c) vests such discretion with OSC. Id. at *6. The matter was sent back to OSC for additional review. Id. When OSC again opted not to investigate, AFL requested entry of a final judgment, after which the district court dismissed the remainder of its claims. J.A. 68. AFL appealed, and we now conduct a de novo review. N. Am. Butterfly Ass’n v. Wolf, 977 F.3d 1244, 1249 (D.C. Cir. 2020).

II

Prior to addressing the substantive issues, it is necessary to determine if AFL met the prerequisites for Article III standing, as this issue is central to the district court’s subject-matter jurisdiction. See Steel Co. v. Citizens for a Better Env’t, 523 U.S. 83, 101–02 (1998). Since neither side originally discussed standing, we directed the parties to submit additional briefs specifically on this matter.

Article III of the Constitution confines the exercise of federal “judicial Power” to the resolution of particular “Cases” and “Controversies.” U.S. Const. Art. III, § 2, cl. 1. The doctrine of standing arises from this constitutional case-or-controversy limitation. Allen v. Wright, 468 U.S. 737, 750 (1984). For a plaintiff to meet the requirements of Article III standing, there must be a demonstration of an injury that is traceable to the conduct of the defendant and capable of being remedied by a favorable court ruling. Lujan v. Defs. of Wildlife, 504 U.S. 555, 560–61 (1992). Such injury must constitute “an invasion of a legally protected interest” and must be both “concrete and particularized” as well as “actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.” Id. at 560 (cleaned up). At the stage where a motion to dismiss is considered, the plaintiff is required to allege facts that plausibly establish each element necessary for standing. Food & Water Watch, Inc. v. Vilsack, 808 F.3d 905, 913 (D.C. Cir. 2015).

In its supplemental brief, AFL asserts that OSC infringed upon its purported procedural entitlement to an investigation as provided by section 1216. However, mere deprivation of a procedural right, absent any concrete interest adversely affected by such deprivation—a procedural right in isolation—does not satisfy the requirements for Article III standing. Summers v. Earth Island Inst., 555 U.S. 488, 496 (2009); see also Citizens for Const. Integrity v. Census Bureau, 115 F.4th 618, 625 (D.C. Cir. 2024). In an effort to address this deficiency, AFL argues that OSC’s decision not to pursue an investigation has resulted in two specific, tangible informational injuries: namely, that DOJ has failed to disclose the records requested by AFL under FOIA, and that OSC has withheld the notices and information mandated during the course of an investigation pursuant to section 1214.

By framing its claim in this manner, AFL attempts to take advantage of the more permissive standing standards applicable in cases asserting procedural injury. In these instances, when plaintiffs contend that a statutory procedural right—enacted to safeguard their specific, tangible interest—has been violated, courts tend to ease, but not eliminate entirely, the traditional requirements concerning imminence and redressability. However, courts maintain the requirements of injury in fact and causation. See Ctr. for Law & Educ. v. Dep’t of Educ., 396 F.3d 1152, 1157 (D.C. Cir. 2005); see also Fla. Audubon Soc’y v. Bentsen, 94 F.3d 658, 664–65 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (en banc). Plaintiffs in such procedural injury cases must still establish that the infringement of a procedural right has produced harm to a “concrete, particularized interest.” Ctr. for Law & Educ., 396 F.3d at 1157. Here, AFL fails to meet these obligations, including even the diminished threshold for redressability. Since AFL falls short of satisfying the procedural injury standing prerequisites, we need not resolve the distinction between procedural and substantive injuries in this context.

AFL’s primary theory is that OSC’s alleged neglect in initiating an investigation under section 1216 has ultimately resulted in AFL being deprived of the records it sought from DOJ through a FOIA request. This line of reasoning, however, is fundamentally flawed with respect to both causation and redressability. To begin with, any purported informational harm stemming from DOJ’s denial of access to agency documents is clearly attributable to DOJ, not to OSC. Furthermore, the hypothetical link between OSC’s inaction under section 1216 and DOJ’s decision not to fulfill the FOIA request is far too conjectural and indirect to fulfill the requirements for Article III standing. The speculative sequence postulated by AFL is as follows: Had OSC conducted the allegedly obligatory investigation pursuant to section 1216, OSC might have opted to initiate corrective action under section 1214, or disciplinary measures under section 1215, against the DOJ personnel implicated. See 5 U.S.C. §§ 1214(b)(3), 1215(a)(1). Subsequently, the MSPB could potentially have imposed sanctions on those employees for unjustified withholding of records under FOIA. See id. §§ 1214(b)(4)(A), 1215(a)(3)(A). As a result, DOJ might then have elected to release the requested documents. However, this hypothetical scenario rests on assumptions regarding the actions of two entities not party to the present litigation—the MSPB and DOJ—whereas “causation generally cannot rely on speculation about the unfettered choices made by independent actors not before the courts.” FDA v. All. for Hippocratic Med., 602 U.S. 367, 383 (2024) (internal quotation marks omitted). Additionally, it hinges on conjecture regarding how OSC might deploy its enforcement authority, a domain in which judicial intervention is generally prohibited. See Heckler v. Chaney, 470 U.S. 821, 831–32 (1985). In light of such uncertainty, AFL cannot demonstrate that a favorable outcome in this case “would very likely spur the next steps necessary to redress” the alleged informational harm. Hecate Energy LLC v. FERC, 126 F.4th 660, 667 (D.C. Cir. 2025). AFL also neglects the well-established principle that redressability is typically a function of whether a judgment is binding on the actual parties to the lawsuit, not on whether its rationale “might persuade actors who are not before the court.” Haaland v. Brackeen, 599 U.S. 255, 293–94 (2023). Therefore, AFL is unable to ground its standing on the asserted interest in the information it requested from DOJ under FOIA.

AFL’s alternative basis for standing, which rests on an alleged informational interest in the results of the OSC’s investigation, proves equally unpersuasive. For a plaintiff to establish informational standing, there must be a tangible harm stemming from the denial of information that a statute affirmatively grants the plaintiff the right to obtain. See Am. Soc’y for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals v. Feld Ent., Inc., 659 F.3d 13, 23 (D.C. Cir. 2011) (citing Zivotofsky ex rel. Ari Z. v. Sec’y of State, 444 F.3d 614, 618 (D.C. Cir. 2006)); see also FEC v. Akins, 524 U.S. 11, 21 (1998); Pub. Citizen v. DOJ, 491 U.S. 440, 448–50 (1989). In the present case, however, even assuming that section 1216(a)(3) imposes an obligation on OSC to investigate FOIA violations, the provision does not confer upon AFL a right to obtain information. AFL counters by arguing that, were OSC to undertake the mandatory investigation purportedly required by section 1216, it might at its discretion furnish AFL with notices and information analogous to those mandated during “prohibited personnel practice” investigations under section 1214. Nevertheless, AFL stops short of arguing that OSC is compelled to incorporate the procedural notice requirements of section 1214 into section 1216 proceedings. In fact, AFL concedes precedent establishing that OSC retains discretion with respect to applying section 1214’s procedural framework to section 1216 cases. See Carson v. U.S. Off. of Special Couns., 633 F.3d 487, 495–96 (6th Cir. 2011). Because there is no claim of a statutory right to information under section 1214, AFL cannot demonstrate a cognizable injury supporting its informational standing theory. For the same reasons, since OSC is not required to extend section 1214 notice procedures to section 1216 inquiries, a court order compelling a section 1216 investigation would not be likely to remedy the informational injury asserted by AFL.

III

Because AFL lacks Article III standing, we vacate the district court’s judgment and remand with instructions to dismiss for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.

So ordered.
<|im_end|>
------
===== NEW BATCH 4 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: We describe an uncommon presentation of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) that was simultaneously identified with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), fulfilling the criteria for definite BD, and further complicated by syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). A male patient in his sixth decade developed fever, headache, and various mucocutaneous manifestations, such as oral aphthae, folliculitis-like eruptions, genital ulcers, and was noted to have hyponatraemia. The clinical and mucocutaneous evidence supported a diagnosis of BD. Despite a normal brain MRI, analysis of cerebrospinal fluid revealed aseptic meningitis, in line with acute neuro-BD. Laboratory investigations established the presence of SIADH. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in complete remission of mucocutaneous signs, neurological symptoms, and normalization of sodium levels, obviating the need for corticosteroids or additional immunosuppressive therapies. This report highlights a potential link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH, emphasizing the necessity for clinicians to be vigilant for simultaneous neurological and endocrine disorders in newly identified BD patients.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent, multisystem inflammatory condition, marked by recurring oral and genital ulcers, uveitis, as well as various skin manifestations. Neurological complications, identified as neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), arise in about 10%–20% of individuals with BD and often appear several years subsequent to the initial diagnosis. Typically, acute neuro-BD manifests with meningoencephalitis and parenchymal brain lesions, which are most frequently located in the brainstem. Although neuro-BD tends to develop later, it is uncommon for both BD and neuro-BD to be diagnosed simultaneously. When simultaneous diagnosis occurs, clinicians must evaluate both mucocutaneous signs and neurological complaints, such as headaches, behavioral disturbances, psychiatric manifestations, and focal neurological deficits.

The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) constitutes a common etiology of hyponatraemia and is frequently attributed to central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, malignancy, or use of specific medications. Owing to the inflammatory pathology characteristic of acute neuro-BD, these patients may face an increased risk of developing SIADH. While SIADH has been documented in association with BD patients undergoing therapies like cyclophosphamide, the occurrence of SIADH due solely to CNS inflammation in the context of acute neuro-BD, without any medication triggers, remains insufficiently established.

Here, we present an unusual instance in which BD and acute neuro-BD were identified at the same time, complicated by the onset of SIADH. This case underscores the need to recognize SIADH as a possible complication of acute neuro-BD, especially in patients exhibiting vague CNS symptoms and unexplained hyponatraemia.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his 60s arrived at the emergency department, reporting a 3-day duration of fever, headache, generalized fatigue, reduced appetite, ongoing hiccups, and joint pain localized to the shoulders and ankles. He also described experiencing oral aphthae.

His past medical history was notable for type 2 diabetes mellitus; however, he was not undergoing any medical management, largely due to a lack of awareness about his illness and failure to adhere to dietary or exercise recommendations. There was no significant family history, including no known instances of BD among his relatives. His alcohol intake was occasional, he was a non-smoker, and there were no recent episodes of travel, animal contact, or exposure to ill individuals. The patient was employed in the metalworking field and had not engaged in recent sexual activity.

During assessment, the patient was alert, though notably fatigued. Recorded vital parameters included a temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure measuring 135/73 mm Hg, a regular heart rate of 119 beats per minute, respiratory rate at 19 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation of 96% while breathing ambient air. Physical evaluation identified oral aphthae and rashes resembling folliculitis distributed on the face and trunk (figure 1A, B, and C). Examinations of the cardiopulmonary and abdominal systems were without significant findings. Manual muscle testing showed preserved strength in both upper and lower limbs. No peripheral oedema was present, and clinical assessment indicated a euvolemic state. The patient was subsequently hospitalized for additional diagnostic workup.

Investigations:

The initial laboratory analysis showed significant hyponatraemia at 124 mmol/L, alongside raised levels of creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein (CRP) at 180 mg/L (reference, <3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 70 mm/hour (reference, <15 mm/hour), while renal function remained within normal limits. The patient also exhibited hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and an increased HbA1c of 8.2%, indicating inadequate glycaemic management. Screening for hepatitis B and C returned negative.

Endocrine assessment demonstrated thyroid-stimulating hormone within normal range (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 of 1.25 ng/dL (reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL), and a serum cortisol level of 42 µg/dL (reference, >6 µg/dL). Serum osmolality was decreased at 267 mOsm/kg (reference, <270 mOsm/kg), while urine osmolality was elevated (900 mOsm/kg; reference, >300 mOsm/kg), accompanied by a high urinary sodium level (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), suggesting compromised water excretion. Despite the presence of hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) was found to be raised (22.4 pg/mL). Electrocardiogram results were normal, and imaging studies including chest X-ray and CT scans of the head, chest, and abdomen revealed no abnormalities. Collectively, these findings were indicative of SIADH.

By the third day, the patient's headache and vertigo intensified. Although neck rigidity and cranial nerve dysfunction were absent, central nervous system (CNS) inflammation was considered. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain did not reveal any notable abnormalities affecting the hypothalamus or other cerebral regions (figure 2). Analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed a slightly increased opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), elevated protein concentration (0.97 g/L), and a modest lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). Cultures and molecular diagnostics of the CSF for bacterial and mycobacterial organisms, as well as herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcal antigen, returned negative results. Cytological assessment of the CSF demonstrated no evidence of malignant cells.

Additional assessments were undertaken to investigate possible systemic disorders. Workup for sarcoidosis indicated normal lysozyme levels (5.1 µg/mL; reference range 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme levels (11.4 U/L; reference 7–25). Screening for hematological malignancy demonstrated an elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) (704 U/mL; reference range, 122–496 U/mL), while testing for human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 antibody was negative.

By the fifth day, the patient developed a painful ulceration of the scrotum (figure 1D). The concurrent presence of oral aphthous ulcers and folliculitis-like cutaneous lesions raised suspicion for a systemic presentation of BD. There was no pathergy reaction to skin pricking. Ocular evaluation showed no signs of uveitis. The patient tested positive for HLA-B51.

Differential diagnosis:

Upon initial assessment, the presence of fever, headache, general malaise, and hyponatraemia pointed toward either a central nervous system infection or a systemic inflammatory process. Viral meningoencephalitis, particularly due to HSV or VZV, was the primary concern. Nonetheless, cerebrospinal fluid analysis returned negative for viral antigens and antibodies, thereby eliminating this possibility. Bacterial meningitis was similarly contemplated but dismissed owing to a lack of neutrophilic dominance, only a mild lymphocytic pleocytosis, and sterile CSF cultures. Tuberculous meningitis was ruled out as acid-fast staining and tuberculosis DNA tests were negative.

Given the neurological symptoms, a primary CNS malignancy was another consideration. However, imaging via brain MRI revealed no abnormalities, and no malignant cells were identified in CSF cytology. Although the soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) level was modestly elevated, this by itself was insufficient to confirm CNS lymphoma.

Autoimmune disorders were systematically excluded on the basis of absent hallmark systemic manifestations and negative autoantibody screening tests. Neurosarcoidosis remained in the differential diagnosis as normal MRI findings can occur in its early stages, but further laboratory workup ultimately argued against it. The slight increase in sIL-2R was deemed non-specific.

The diagnosis of definite BD was established according to clinical presentation: fever and fatigue, oral aphthous ulcers (assigned two points), genital aphthosis (two points), and a folliculitis-like eruption (one point). He accumulated five points based on the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease (with a threshold of four or more for a definitive diagnosis). Notably, the presence of genital aphthosis is highly specific for BD and was a strong indicator in this context. After thoroughly excluding infectious, neoplastic, and autoimmune etiologies, the diagnosis of acute neuro-BD was confirmed, characterized by CNS involvement in the presence of mucocutaneous manifestations.

Treatment:

Upon admission (day 1), clinicians suspected the presence of an underlying inflammatory disorder, though its precise cause was not identified. Empirical cefepime therapy commenced after obtaining blood cultures, in order to address a possible bacterial infection, despite the lack of an identifiable source.

By day 3, the patient’s headache and vertigo had intensified, raising concerns about possible CNS inflammation or infection. Empirical acyclovir therapy was started, but discontinued once laboratory results excluded HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On day 8, following the confirmed diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, colchicine therapy was introduced. Oral aphthous ulcers received topical corticosteroid ointment, while genital ulcers and skin lesions were managed with silver sulfadiazine cream. For SIADH, management consisted of fluid restriction to less than $800\,\mathrm{mL}/\mathrm{day}$, with vigilant daily serum sodium monitoring and caution to prevent overly rapid sodium correction. Treatment with hypertonic saline or vasopressin receptor antagonists was not necessary.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient experienced resolution of his fever and an increase in appetite within a day of initiating colchicine therapy. Over the subsequent two weeks, there was gradual improvement in his symptoms, such as vertigo, general malaise, hiccups, and mucocutaneous manifestations. By the sixteenth day, his serum sodium concentration had returned to 136 mmol/L and ADH levels had dropped to 1.8 pg/mL. Additionally, levels of myogenic enzymes normalized.

Notably, the management plan did not include systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents. The patient was discharged after spending one month in the hospital, a period during which the acute phase resolved, hyponatraemia was actively monitored and treated, and rehabilitation addressed his decreased physical capabilities. Colchicine was maintained for roughly four years, during which neither BD relapse nor neurological complications were observed. Upon stabilization of BD, biguanide therapy was started, resulting in sustained glycaemic control.

Discussion:

In this instance, both systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were concurrently identified, representing an unusual clinical occurrence. The case also illustrated that acute neuro-BD can be accompanied by SIADH. The improvement of mucocutaneous findings, neurological symptoms, and hyponatraemia following colchicine monotherapy indicates a potential direct link among BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. When encountering patients with BD who develop fever or headache together with hyponatraemia, healthcare providers should entertain the possibility of acute neuro-BD as an underlying etiology.

The simultaneous detection of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD in this case, substantiated by the presence of mucocutaneous lesions and central nervous system involvement, is particularly noteworthy. Ordinarily, manifestations in major organs, such as CNS lesions, emerge on average about four years after a BD diagnosis, and neurological signs are initially present in fewer than 5% of individuals. Additionally, only around 10% of patients develop headaches attributable directly to neuro-BD, rendering early identification of neuro-BD particularly difficult in this context. Most frequently, acute neuro-BD manifests as a self-limiting meningoencephalitis, which may or may not be accompanied by focal neurological deficits. In this patient, MRI of the brain did not reveal any abnormalities at typical BD-affected regions, such as the hypothalamus. Acute neuro-BD is capable of presenting as aseptic meningitis in the absence of parenchymal brain involvement, and a normal brain MRI, especially during the initial stage, does not preclude the diagnosis. The absence of radiological evidence contributed to the diagnostic challenge in this scenario. Although testing for HLA-B51 was undertaken, it did not assist in diagnosis. This is consistent with international criteria for BD, which prioritize clinical findings and do not mandate HLA-B51 positivity. Ultimately, this case underscores the necessity of considering neuro-BD when patients exhibiting mucocutaneous symptoms also report non-specific neurological complaints.

During the initial steps of the differential diagnosis, our main consideration was an infectious etiology for the CNS inflammation, given the presence of unexplained fever, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia; nonetheless, no causative pathogen was identified. We expanded our differential to encompass other potential sources of CNS inflammation such as connective tissue disorders and neoplastic processes, specifically including sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancies. Consequently, our comprehensive preliminary workup incorporated autoimmune serological markers, as well as serum ACE and sIL-2R levels, as general screening measures. These investigations were undertaken largely to rule out possibilities rather than out of significant clinical suspicion. Ultimately, neither clinical evaluation, imaging, nor CSF analysis substantiated any of these conditions, and the ancillary tests did not significantly influence our diagnostic conclusions. The sensitivity of ACE for sarcoidosis remains suboptimal, and although sIL-2R might have utility in assessing malignant lymphoma, slight elevations lack specificity and can simply indicate a generic inflammatory response. In this instance, the absence of genital ulcers early in the disease course contributed to uncertainty regarding a diagnosis of BD and prompted an extensive differential approach. This case underscores the necessity of judicious test selection, reminding clinicians to reserve ancillary investigations for situations where they are clearly indicated by clinical context, and to interpret such results with discernment.

While drug-induced SIADH has previously been documented in individuals with BD treated with agents such as cyclophosphamide, the link between acute neuro-BD and the onset of SIADH is not well elucidated. Neuro-BD is defined by inflammatory processes within the CNS, which can potentially result in abnormal secretion of ADH. Evidence from multiple investigations has indicated that interleukin-6 (IL-6)—a proinflammatory cytokine commonly heightened in neuroinflammatory states—is implicated in the enhancement of ADH secretion. In the context of BD, dysregulated monocyte activity results in autonomous IL-6 generation, with increased IL-6 concentrations observed in the CSF of those experiencing acute neuro-BD episodes. This body of research has led to the hypothesis that IL-6–driven inflammation might be involved in the emergence of SIADH in this context. Despite the absence of direct IL-6 measurements in serum or CSF in the current report, the significantly raised serum CRP could indicate an underlying inflammatory process mediated by IL-6. SIADH is recognized as a complication of numerous conditions, encompassing CNS inflammation, pulmonary disorders, neoplasms, and select pharmacotherapies; however, the data presented here are insufficient to conclusively demonstrate a direct causative relationship between SIADH and acute neuro-BD. The temporal concurrence seen in this instance might simply represent a general reaction to CNS inflammation rather than indicating a mechanism specific to this disease entity.

This case further highlights the range of complications that may arise from hyponatraemia induced by SIADH, particularly in the context of acute neuro-BD. Prior literature has suggested that persistent hiccups could serve as a valuable clinical indicator of severe hyponatraemia stemming from SIADH associated with central nervous system inflammation, such as meningitis. Moreover, our initial diagnostic approach included assessing CK levels due to symptoms of fever, arthralgia, and generalized fatigue—findings that may be linked to inflammatory or metabolic muscle injury—and this testing uncovered rhabdomyolysis. Although rhabdomyolysis is a recognized complication of severe hyponatraemia, it is frequently missed in standard evaluations. These clinical presentations, while established, are frequently underestimated manifestations of marked hyponatraemia. It is important for healthcare providers to recognize that symptoms such as persistent hiccups or rhabdomyolysis, which may initially appear unrelated, could signal significant electrolyte imbalances, especially against a background of neuroinflammatory disease.
------
Corticosteroids remain the cornerstone therapy for acute neuro-BD, with the majority of patients showing a positive clinical response. Nonetheless, there are documented instances where patients exhibiting only meningoencephalitis-like features experience spontaneous remission. In the case discussed here, administration of colchicine alone resulted in improvements in both mucocutaneous and neurological manifestations, as well as correction of hyponatraemia. Colchicine mediates its anti-inflammatory activity through inhibition of neutrophil chemotaxis and activation, along with downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and IL-6. While colchicine is routinely employed for managing mucocutaneous symptoms in BD, meta-analyses indicate limited efficacy for acute neuro-BD, underscoring the need for immunosuppressants to achieve sufficient disease control. Previously, colchicine has mainly been administered in conjunction with corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive medications, rather than as sole therapy. Even though spontaneous improvement cannot be definitively ruled out in this instance, these observations imply that colchicine monotherapy may represent a viable therapeutic alternative for acute neuro-BD and associated complications like SIADH, especially in situations where corticosteroids are not recommended or are contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We presented an uncommon instance in which Behçet’s Disease (BD) and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed simultaneously, and where SIADH served as a complicating factor for the neuro-BD. This report underscores that SIADH can manifest as a consequence of acute neuro-BD, emphasizing the necessity for clinicians to recognize this potential link. Administration of colchicine alone resulted in swift resolution of mucocutaneous lesions, neurological deficits, and hyponatraemia, indicating that colchicine could be an effective initial treatment in early neuro-BD. For individuals with BD who develop vague central nervous system complaints such as fever and headache alongside hyponatraemia, it is imperative for healthcare providers to consider the possibility of acute neuro-BD complicated by SIADH.<|im_end|><|im_end|> did not spend your money wisely."

Gisèle:  "So, then, what if I had $100, and I went to the shoe store, and I bought a pair of polka-dot high heels?  And then I had $4 left, so I went to the clothing store and I bought some underpants, and then I had $1 left, and then I bought a Rapunzel car kit?"

Trish signature for blog

Monday, August 5, 2013

Gisele's Kindergarten Graduation

How did I not post these pictures?  Boy, I AM behind!  There are only a couple, but I think they adequately display her beauty and talent.  And no, I'm not biased at all.

Trish signature for blog

Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...<|endoftext|>It should be pointed out some important issues about our educational project:

• It is an innovative project

• It puts into practice a significant learning

• It favours the stimulation of the senses and the emotions

• It helps the cognitive development

• It develops the creativity, the memory and the imagination

• It teaches how to grow as a person

• It favours social and environmental relations

• It stimulates the fine and the psychomotor activity

• It strengthen the evolution of the learning of the speech and the language

• Swimming: it is one of the most completed sports. It helps children to improve their cardio-respiratory abilities, the postural alignment, and it benefits the muscular coordination while developing the sensorial and psychomotor abilities.

Besides, it contributes to the development of the independence and self-confidence of the child.

• English: Development depending on the age:

- From 4 months old to 1 year old: they get comfortable with the musicality and the different sounds

- From 1-year-old to 2 years old: they understand basic instructions

- From 2 years old to 3 years old: they understand what it's told to them and they are able to follow orders

• Psychomotor activity:

If we analyze this concept, it is made out of two parts: “psycho”, which makes reference to the double psychical activity of the human being, its cognitive and socio-affective behaviour; and “motor activity”, which refers to the movement of the body. These two joined together shows the mutual relation between the physical activity and the motor function.

The psychomotor development not only makes reference to the motion or the movement of the child, but it also involves the knowledge of his body, that is, the body image, the coordination with his body in front any stimulus that is perceived by his senses, among other things.

During the psychomotor activity, three development areas of the child are being worked: the BODY IMAGE, the SPATIAL ORGANIZATION and the TEMPORARY ORANIZATION.
1, Comtessa Elvira Street. 25008. Lleida. Telephone number: 973 23 65 45
E-mail info@llardinfantstictac.com WEB: www.llardinfantstictac.com
insta face face cat cas cas<|endoftext|>The historic and beautiful Estate of Lochdochart lies in upper Glen Dochart and Strathfillan. It extends to 2,505 Ha: (6,180 Acres), rising in elevation from 180m - 1200m it comprizes 100 Ha of inby gound, 420 Ha woodland (including 100 Ha of Native Pinewoods and ancient woodlands) the remainder being hill and mountain.

The hillfarming unit carries 900 Cheviot ewes and a herd of 90 Pedigree Galloway and Whitebread Shorthorn cows.

Loch Dochart, with the historic Castle on the island and Loch Iubair lie mainly within the Estate.<|endoftext|>﻿ Men On Men Battleboro NC Men Seeking Men United States / Men On Men North Carolina / Battleboro NC

Men On Men Battleboro NC

Okay, the article's first precept concerns penile size. Well, we know that there are plenty of size queens among us, but for the most part, we are all happy with the average penis - and that's 5-6 inches, when erect. Larger men may seem smaller due to their girth, but of course, we all know that it's not what you've got that counts, but how you use what you've got. Again, to the article: we learn that a woman's vagina will adjust to the size of the penis. How does this work with us guys? Well, we've also learned that the anus will adjust to the size of the penis as well. It looks like the size of your partner's penis isn't all that important (sexually), though we all seem to crave a large one. Remember too, that orally, we don't want something we can't handle.

Men Searching Men

muscle men for men

But the transition from darkness to light is not necessarily obvious. I have known many guys Bi Sexual Guys who remained during long periods in this "purgatory", this transitional state between "revelation to oneself" and "self-acceptance". In this world which is sometimes extremely violent and gray, people tend to hate themselves for being different.

Gay Marriage - Reasons To Legalize It!

Since everyone is so worked up regarding why gay couples want the same rights as heterosexual couples, it might be prudent to document how gay households are charged more but provided less. This really isn't about arguing whether or not you agree with same sex marriages or you are part of an anti-gay group. It's really about outlining the reasons for desiring protection.

Battleboro Men Looking For Men

men for men Battleboro North Carolina

It is ultimately up to the parent to decide how to break the news to his or her child. Sensitivity and patience are must have necessities while treating the matter. Lesbian dating couples must never bring a Gay Men 4 Men child into a relationship that they are not sure about. They should not treat a kid as the binding factor in their relationship. Unless they have a solid foundation between themselves, bringing a child into the picture can be devastating for all three individuals.

Legion of Honor, San Francisco. San Francisco may not scream destination wedding for you, but given that this city played a major role in the gay rights movement, it seems appropriate to include it. This Old Men With Old Men historic Art Museum is located on a hill overlooking the spot where the Pacific Ocean meets San Francisco Bay. The view here is incredible, and not just make an unforgettable experience for your guests, but also provides an excellent backdrop for breathtaking wedding photos.

Battleboro North Carolina

men that love men Battleboro North Carolina

Dating should be fun, but it's also a bit like American Idol. You are, when all is said and done, judging people. Not judging them for the hell of it, but judging whether they are right for you. If your first dates are all about feeling love and not about analyzing the other person, then you might wind up with some unpleasant surprises down the road-when those addictive feelings of love and lust have faded. While you were falling in love you might not have realized that the person you love is a moocher, or the person doesn't want children, or the person is prone to nasty mood swings. People often wonder why other people get involved in bad relationships. They say to themselves, "I'll never be foolish enough to date someone who is that obnoxious" or "I'd never date someone who'll use me for my money." But the reality is that it is very easy to fall into that kind of trap-no matter how smart you are.

Battleboro bisexual personals

Born That Way? A large number of people believe homosexuals chose their sexual disposition (maybe a subconscious act of immoral rebellion?). And a large number of people believe homosexuals were born that way (a side-effect of the fall... maybe genetic confusion?). This is anecdotal but, I was born heterosexual. I never chose to be straight (I just am) and I sure wouldn't choose to be gay. And I think I am both natural and normal in that respect.

Men Seeking Men Personals

men searching men Battleboro

Use these gay dating tips to create you are winning profile and if you have any questions I will be glad to answer them. Leave your questions in the form of a comment. And if you like this article please use the social buttons on this page to bookmark and share it.

Gay Relationships - Legal History Of Homosexuality

Battleboro gaymuscle

Every gay man has a little diva in him. Get treated with the right respect when you find your gay Sugar Daddy on a quality dating site. A tryst with a sugar daddy presents its posh perks and ample attention. When you date him you're likely to blow some cash on the little or big pleasures of life.



meet bisexual men Battleboro North Carolina

Sexual habits or lifestyle deepens the mystery bit further. We shall try not to walk in that direction otherwise it would become difficult to reach any place of common understanding. Our societal has become a reflective mirror of individualistic personalities that we all are living. So it would be unfair to blame one person in particular for his or her own choices made. We know that signs would start appearing on the surface once our understanding of 'natural' and 'unnatural' or 'right' and 'wrong' stands without any definition. Gay relationships belong to the same planet that we belong.

Battleboro North Carolina

Gay and lesbian relationships face tough opposition, but they are slowly gaining the rights of heterosexual couples. In many states, it is now legal for gay people to get married and gay right supporters are gaining steam. Gay and lesbian relationships are a social struggle that will likely not be resolved anytime very soon. Until then, gay and lesbian couples will Menseekingmen likely keep fighting for the rights they feel they deserve.

Battleboro gay dating

Of course the key to this working for you is to choose the right gay singles site and staying away from the wrong ones. The right gay site will have lots of members. The wrong ones will have few. The right gay dating sites will have all real and recent members. The wrong ones will have lots of fake profiles and use every trick in the book to part you with your money. In my opinion the best gay dating sites for finding the man you want are free, have lots of members, and all the profiles are of real gay guys.

men dating men


Married Bisexual Men Battleboro

naked bisexual men

Most would agree that this hardly does the gay community justice and may not be enough for gay men and women to really make any kind of headway in finding that Mr or Mrs Right. That is why there has been a M4m recent advent of gay dating services that are more geared towards same-sex unions, which have helped many gay singles on the gay dating scene.

bi sexual guys


Men 4 Men


What you can do is to do a simple Google search on terms like 'gay chat', 'online gay chat' and 'gay chatrooms'. You Naked Bisexual Men should find many such sites available. There are some sites that are specially catered to a certain country and even city. This makes making new friends and meeting up easier.

Actions don't necessarily speak louder than words - We've all been told that "actions speak louder than words" but this isn't always so. Be wary of interpreting someone's actions as meaning that they are into you or that they actually want a relationship with you. Some guys Men 4 Men may say sweet things, buy you flowers or gifts, treat you to dinner, introduce you to their friends and family or initiate sex as a part of their own dating rituals. These actions may hold no specific meaning to you whatsoever.

gay men on men Battleboro North Carolina

The bottom line here is that gay rights equal human rights and with Meet Bisexual Men reform, UK aid will resume and with more managed aid we can increase our education systems which in turn will eventually eliminate such extreme poverty. Why do we stress over a person's sexuality when we have other desperate issues seeking our attention?

The proportion of the gay community in Australia can only be determined by Census data. According to the 2012 Census, there were 33,714 same-sex couples in Australia. Obviously, there would be more same-sex couples than this, but these are the couples who answered the question regarding living arrangements. If we double this to allow for the single gay and lesbian community or for even those who did not wish to answer the question, we would still be left with, at most, 100,000 people. With the current population of Australia being approx 22,668,000, that is only around 0.4% of the population. In addition, according to The Williams Institute report sourced from the gay lobby website, 54% of same-sex couples said they would marry if the law changed. So, based on the Australian Census data, this would only equate to 17,820 people. With such inconsequential numbers, it really begs the question as to why the government continues to refuse equal marriage rights to this community.

Battleboro North Carolina

old men  with old men

Are you serious? You think I should hide because I am Married Bisexual Men gay, because I have same-sex relationships? Because I want the same rights as everyone else and one day MARRY the woman of my dreams. Do you want me silent and deaf to your cruel and uneducated remarks? You have another thing coming! Not only will I not stay quite, not only will I not hide, I will stand proud and strong and I will fight for everything I am and for my community! I will fight for a life I want and deserve.

Beyond the excitement of weekend outings, dance parties and intimate get-aways, a gay sugar daddy typically has a unique inside view of the Bisexual Adult Old Boys Club. You'll have an opportunity to pick his brain, network, and maybe even get a boost in your own field. Use your head and his experience to work your way up the corporate ladder. You will be glad you did.

Using a "brand name" dating site to find gay love on line is no big deal. Although one very famous site received terrible press (rightly so!) for banning gay matches, on most sites your sexuality is almost a non issue. When you do a search you request "male looking for male" or "female looking for female" and the only matches that come up will be people looking for the same.

Gay Dating

If you are looking for a long term gay relationship, you are best off utilizing one of the on line dating sites that have invested significant time and research into finding what makes relationships for all people work. Isn't there more to you than just your sexuality? Long term relationships stem from not just finding things we have in common (anyone who has ever used an on-line dating service recognizes the dreaded term "like you, he's a feline lover and likes to eat out"). Good grief, which narrows it down to about 80% of the population at this point! In order to be successful in the long term, compatibility and connection are not the only factors that are important. Chemistry is a huge component! No two people know until they get a whiff of Men Seeking Men each other's pheromones in person whether or not the chemistry between them is combustible. However some "mainstream" internet dating sites have invested millions in research to at least make some headway in this area when matching you to people before you invest time and energy in corresponding and meeting them.

men on men

Its a shame that something so important to our happiness in life is often just left to chance. There is no courses in high school, and very little information in the media on how to begin relationships and make them work successfully. This is especially so for those of us who are gay and lesbian. Historically and until just very recently we have been either ignored or at best depicted Men Seeking Men disparagingly. So we have not had any positive role models to emulate and give us a sense of societal respect and self-worth.


Men On Men Whittier NC | Men On Men Newton Grove NC<|endoftext|>Wednesday, 12 October 2016

a morning with maltsters, part four

Making Malt: in the final presentation we were taken from ancient times and traditional floor malting into the present day, where modern germinating kilning vessels can make up to 500 tons of malt at a time, in a continuous batching process.

Most of the malt made in Britain is used in the brewing and distilling industries, with roughly 500,000 tons of malt each year being used by commercial brewers and 800,000 tons going to the distilleries. There are around twenty million casks of whisky maturing in the 115 distilleries around the UK. Our third speaker, Eric Walker, was a man with lots of experience in every aspect of the malting, brewing and distilling industries. He began with a quick look at making malt in the distant past, pointing out that malt has been important for a very long time.

Its' origins are lost in the mists of time.

There's a story that ancient Egyptians, around 3000 years ago, may have made their malt by putting grain into baskets, then lowering the basket into a deep well. The basket could be raised and lowered, effectively steeping the grain. It would germinate in the basket and was shaken
------
===== NEW BATCH 5 | input_ids shape=(2, 3949) | attention_mask shape=(2, 3949) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Emerging work, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, heralds the advent of 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). Here, we propose a new 1-bit LLM variant, \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, whose parameters are exclusively drawn from the ternary set \{-1, 0, 1\}. Remarkably, this approach achieves parity with full-precision Transformer LLMs (FP16 or BF16) of equivalent architecture and training scale, both in perplexity and downstream task efficacy. Moreover, this model offers substantial improvements in latency, memory usage, throughput, and energy efficiency. Beyond its efficiency gains, the 1.58-bit LLM introduces a novel scaling law and establishes a new methodology for training future LLMs that are simultaneously performant and resource-friendly. This innovation not only fosters a shift in computational paradigms but also creates new opportunities for hardware explicitly optimized for 1-bit LLMs.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

The development of Large Language Models (LLMs) has accelerated dramatically, enabling unprecedented capabilities in natural language understanding and generation. Nonetheless, as model sizes have grown, practical concerns around deployment have intensified, particularly regarding their escalating energy demands and resultant environmental as well as economic costs.

A prominent strategy to mitigate these issues is the application of post-training quantization methods, which aim to create compact, low-bitwidth models optimized for inference~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. These approaches operate by lowering the precision of both weights and activations, yielding significant savings in memory footprint and computation. There has been a continual movement from standard 16-bit formats toward even smaller representations, such as 4-bit models~\cite{gptq, awq}. However, while such quantization techniques are commonplace in industry applications of LLMs, they often result in less-than-ideal performance due to inherent limitations post-training.

Advancements in 1-bit model designs, as exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, indicate a promising avenue for reducing the computational demands of large language models (LLMs) without compromising on their efficacy. Conventional LLMs generally utilize 16-bit floating-point representations (such as FP16 or BF16), and most of their computational workload centers around matrix multiplications. As a result, the predominant source of computational expense stems from floating-point additions and multiplications. By contrast, BitNet confines its matrix multiplication operations to integer additions alone, achieving significant reductions in energy consumption for LLM inference. Since power is a primary constraint on computational throughput in many hardware architectures, these energy savings can be translated directly into increased computational speed.

Beyond just computation, the expense of moving model parameters from off-chip DRAM into on-chip memory resources (such as SRAM) is non-trivial during inference. Solutions have been proposed that scale up on-chip SRAM to enhance throughput, but this substantially increases system cost relative to DRAM. In contrast, 1-bit LLMs offer marked reductions in both memory bandwidth and storage requirements, alleviating bottlenecks associated with parameter loading from DRAM and improving inference speed and efficiency.

This paper presents \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, an innovative 1-bit LLM variant characterized by ternary parameters, each adopting one of \{-1, 0, 1\}. By extending the original BitNet’s binary representation with an explicit zero value, we arrive at an effective 1.58 bits per parameter in the binary system. \text{BitNet b1.58} preserves the advantageous computation scheme of BitNet—requiring minimal multiplication in matrix operations and remaining highly amenable to optimization. It matches the original BitNet’s energy profile while outperforming traditional FP16 LLMs regarding memory usage, data throughput, and latency. Importantly, \text{BitNet b1.58} introduces two distinct improvements: (1) the enhanced modeling capability enabled by ternary weights—specifically, the use of zero values allows for explicit feature selection and pruning, which notably boosts the representational power of 1-bit LLMs; and (2) empirical results demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} can reach parity with full-precision baselines (FP16) concerning both perplexity and downstream task metrics, given identical settings (model size, number of training tokens, etc.) for models starting at the 3B parameter scale.

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} extends the BitNet model, a Transformer variant that swaps the standard \emph{nn.Linear} layers for \emph{BitLinear} alternatives. This version is trained anew using weights quantized to 1.58 bits and activations quantized to 8 bits. In relation to the original BitNet, this model includes several modifications, which we outline below.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} In order to limit the weights to values in $\{-1, 0, +1\}$, we utilize a quantization approach based on the \emph{absmean}. This method involves normalizing the weight matrix by dividing by the mean of the absolute values, followed by rounding each element to the nearest integer among $\{-1, 0, +1\}$:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

The same quantization method as used in BitNet is applied to the activations, with one key adjustment: rather than scaling pre-nonlinearity activations to fit $[0, Q_b]$, we rescale activations per token to the interval $[-Q_b, Q_b]$, effectively removing zero-point quantization. This adjustment streamlines both code implementation and system optimization, with our experiments showing minimal influence on performance.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

Given that the LLaMA~\cite{llama, llama2} architecture has become a standard foundation in the open-source LLM ecosystem, \text{BitNet b1.58} has been designed to closely mirror LLaMA's structure. This includes adopting RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, and rotary embeddings~\cite{rope}, as well as omitting all bias terms. As a result, \text{BitNet b1.58} can be readily deployed within widely-used open-source frameworks, such as Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}, requiring only minor modifications.

\section{Results}

We conducted a comparison between \text{BitNet b1.58} and our implementation of the FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} across multiple model scales. For consistency, both models underwent pre-training on the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama} using 100 billion tokens. We assessed zero-shot capabilities on a suite of language benchmarks, namely ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. Validation perplexity was also recorded on WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4}.

In terms of operational metrics, we evaluated GPU memory footprint and inference latency for both \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58}. Measurements were obtained utilizing the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} library, which is optimized for minimizing latency during LLM inference on GPUs. Notably, the 2-bit kernel from Ladder~\cite{ladder} was incorporated for \text{BitNet b1.58}. For inference efficiency, we reported latency as the time required per generated token.

Results are summarized in Table~\ref{tab:ppl}, detailing both perplexity and computational costs for \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. The table reveals that, starting at a 3B model size, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves comparable perplexity to the full-precision \text{LLaMA LLM}, while delivering a 2.71$\times$ reduction in latency and a 3.55$\times$ decrease in GPU memory consumption. In particular, the 3.9B variant of \text{BitNet b1.58} is 2.4$\times$ faster and uses 3.32$\times$ less memory, yet substantially outperforms the \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B model.

Comprehensive zero-shot accuracy for all downstream tasks is presented in Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot}. We employed the protocol established by \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}} for these evaluations. The findings indicate that, as model size grows, the accuracy gap between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} diminishes. Significantly, \text{BitNet b1.58} matches full-precision performance beginning from the 3B size. Consistent with perplexity results, on downstream tasks, \text{BitNet b1.58} 3.9B outperforms \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B, all while utilizing less memory and incurring lower latency. This evidence positions \text{BitNet b1.58} as a Pareto optimal enhancement over leading large language models.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

We expanded our experiments to include larger models at 7B, 13B, and 70B parameters, analyzing their associated costs. As shown in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy}, latency and memory usage trends reveal that acceleration gains improve with increased model scale. Notably, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B achieves a speed-up factor of 4.1 over the \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline, attributed to the fact that \emph{nn.Linear} computation time escalates as models grow. Memory usage displays a parallel pattern, since the embedding layer—remaining in full precision—accounts for a relatively smaller fraction of total memory in larger networks. Both performance metrics were gathered using a 2-bit kernel, implying that further reductions in cost are attainable through additional kernel optimization.

\paragraph{Energy}

To assess energy efficiency, we estimated the arithmetic operation energy consumption of both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. Our analysis prioritizes matrix multiplication, given its dominant contribution to the computational cost in large language models. Figure~\ref{fig:energy} depicts the breakdown of energy expenditure: most of the computation for \text{BitNet b1.58} is performed using INT8 addition, whereas \text{LLaMA LLM} primarily relies on FP16 addition and FP16 multiplication. Drawing on the energy model presented in~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, we determined that \text{BitNet b1.58} reduces matrix multiplication energy consumption for arithmetic operations by a factor of 71.4 on 7nm hardware. We also report end-to-end energy usage for processing 512-token sequences. The results indicate that as model size increases, \text{BitNet b1.58} demonstrates progressively greater energy efficiency relative to the FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline. This improvement arises because the relative share of \emph{nn.Linear} operations grows with model scale, while the proportional costs of other components decline in larger models.

\paragraph{Throughput}

We assess the throughput of both \text{BitNet b1.58} and the 70B-parameter \text{LLaMA LLM} models using two 80GB A100 GPUs, leveraging pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe} to enable the execution of \text{LLaMA LLM} 70B on these devices. By incrementally increasing the batch size until the GPUs’ memory capacity was reached, while maintaining a sequence length of 512, we observed that \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B sustains a batch size up to 11 times larger than that of \text{LLaMA LLM}. This leads to an 8.9-fold increase in throughput, as presented in Table~\ref{tab:throughput}.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} introduces a novel scaling dynamic between inference cost and model effectiveness.} Drawing on Figures~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and \ref{fig:energy}, we can express the following comparative relations for various model sizes using 1.58-bit versus 16-bit precision:

\begin{itemize}
    \item A 13B \text{BitNet b1.58} model surpasses a 3B FP16 LLM regarding latency, memory efficiency, and energy utilization.
    \item A 30B \text{BitNet b1.58} model outperforms a 7B FP16 LLM on latency, memory use, and power consumption.
    \item A 70B \text{BitNet b1.58} model is more advantageous than a 13B FP16 LLM with respect to latency, memory demands, and energy usage.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

Training token count plays a vital role in large language models. To evaluate the scalability of \text{BitNet b1.58} with respect to token volume, we trained a \text{BitNet b1.58} model using 2T tokens, adhering to the dataset preparation methods outlined for StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, which is recognized as the leading open-source model of its scale. Both models underwent evaluation on a composite benchmark comprising Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}. Zero-shot accuracy metrics are reported in Table~\ref{tab:2t}; for evaluations involving both accuracy and normalized accuracy, we report the mean value. StableLM 3b's 2T token performance metrics are sourced from its technical documentation. Our analysis demonstrates that \text{BitNet b1.58} consistently outperforms across all evaluated tasks, implying robust generalization for 1.58-bit LLMs.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architectures have emerged as a resource-efficient strategy for large language models (LLMs), substantially lowering computational FLOPs. However, the practical deployment of MoE models remains hampered by substantial memory demands and significant inter-device communication costs. The introduction of 1.58-bit LLMs provides viable solutions to these limitations. Specifically, their reduced memory requirements decrease the number of devices necessary for deployment and dramatically lessen network activation transfer overhead. Ideally, with sufficient memory efficiency, entire MoE models might reside on a single chip, eliminating communication overheads altogether.

\textbf{Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs}

Handling extensive input sequences has become increasingly crucial in LLM applications. One prominent issue is the elevated memory usage arising from key-value (KV) caches during inference on long sequences. \text{BitNet b1.58} addresses this concern by reducing activation precision from 16 bits to 8 bits, thereby enabling a twofold increase in context length with identical hardware constraints. Prospects exist for further, lossless compression—down to 4 bits or even less for 1.58-bit LLMs—suggesting promising avenues for subsequent investigation.

\textbf{LLMs on Edge and Mobile}

Deploying 1.58-bit LLMs can greatly enhance the feasibility and efficiency of language models on edge and mobile platforms, which commonly face strict limitations in terms of memory capacity and computational resources. The minimized memory and energy consumption characteristics of 1.58-bit LLMs enable their integration into such resource-constrained environments, broadening the spectrum of possible applications beyond previous constraints. As a result, these advancements could markedly elevate the functionality of edge and mobile devices. In addition, the architecture of 1.58-bit LLMs is well-suited to CPU-based systems—the predominant processing units in these devices—allowing \text{BitNet b1.58} to achieve higher operational efficiency and expanded capabilities on such platforms.

\textbf{New Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Innovative hardware solutions such as~Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}} illustrate the promise of developing dedicated platforms (e.g., LPUs) for LLM acceleration. Expanding on these efforts, we advocate for focused research and development targeting new hardware and system designs tailored specifically for 1-bit LLMs, motivated by the paradigm shift introduced by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}.<|im_end|>
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: This paper presents an unusual instance of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) identified simultaneously with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), fulfilling the criteria for definite BD, and further complicated by syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). A male patient in his sixties arrived with symptoms of fever, headache, and mucocutaneous lesions—namely, oral aphthae, folliculitis-like eruptions, genital ulcers, and hyponatraemia. Diagnosis of BD was established on the basis of his mucocutaneous findings. While brain MRI yielded no pathological findings, analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid indicated aseptic meningitis, supporting acute neuro-BD. Additional laboratory results met criteria for SIADH. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in the complete remission of the patient’s mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as normalization of sodium levels, without resorting to corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive therapies. This report highlights a potential link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH, emphasizing the necessity to consider both neurological and endocrine complications at the time of initial BD diagnosis.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent, multisystemic inflammatory condition marked by episodic oral and genital ulcerations, uveitis, and cutaneous manifestations. Neurological involvement—termed neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD)—arises in roughly 10%–20% of cases, generally manifesting years after the initial identification of BD. Acute neuro-BD most frequently manifests as meningoencephalitis accompanied by parenchymal brain abnormalities, with a predilection for the brainstem. While it is more usual for neurological features to develop later, it is uncommon for BD and neuro-BD to be diagnosed at the same time. In such situations, comprehensive evaluation of both mucocutaneous signs and neurological manifestations—including cephalalgia, personality alterations, psychiatric disturbances, and localized neurological deficits—is crucial.

Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) constitutes a frequent etiology of hyponatraemia, often secondary to central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, neoplasms, or specific pharmacotherapies. Given the intense inflammatory activity associated with acute neuro-BD, these individuals may be predisposed to SIADH. Although there are accounts of SIADH developing in BD patients undergoing agents such as cyclophosphamide, evidence supporting SIADH arising exclusively from CNS inflammatory mechanisms—without medication-related triggers—in acute neuro-BD remains insufficiently documented.

We present an unusual instance in which BD and acute neuro-BD were simultaneously diagnosed, with the course complicated by SIADH. This case underscores the necessity of including SIADH in the differential diagnosis when evaluating patients with acute neuro-BD who exhibit hyponatraemia and vague CNS symptomatology.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his sixties arrived at the emergency department experiencing three days of fever, headache, general malaise, loss of appetite, ongoing hiccups, and joint pain localized to his shoulders and ankles. He also mentioned the presence of oral aphthous ulcers.

The patient’s medical background was notable for type 2 diabetes mellitus; however, he was not on medication due to limited awareness about his illness and insufficient attention to dietary and exercise recommendations. There was no significant family history, as none of his relatives had been diagnosed with BD. His social history revealed occasional alcohol consumption, no tobacco use, no recent travel, and no contact with animals or ill individuals. His occupation was in the metalworking sector, and he denied any recent sexual encounters.

Upon evaluation, the patient was conscious but showed signs of tiredness. His vital parameters were as follows: temperature measured at 38.1°C, blood pressure at 135/73 mm Hg, heart rate of 119 beats per minute with regular rhythm, respiratory rate at 19 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation at 96% while breathing ambient air. On physical inspection, there were oral aphthous ulcers and folliculitis-like lesions located on the face and trunk (see figure 1A, B, and C). Assessment of the cardiopulmonary and abdominal systems was within normal limits. Manual testing of muscle strength in both upper and lower limbs demonstrated no evidence of weakness. There were no signs of peripheral edema, and clinical evaluation indicated a euvolemic state. The patient was hospitalized for additional assessment.

Investigations:

Upon admission, laboratory investigations demonstrated significant hyponatraemia (124 mmol/L), markedly increased creatine kinase (1349 U/L), as well as raised levels of aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein (CRP) (180 mg/L; reference, <3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (70 mm/hour; reference, <15 mm/hour), while renal function parameters remained within normal limits. Additionally, the patient exhibited hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and a high HbA1c (8.2%), reflecting inadequate glycaemic management. Screening for hepatitis B and C returned negative results.

Assessment of endocrine status indicated that thyroid-stimulating hormone (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 (1.25 ng/dL; reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL), and serum cortisol (42 µg/dL; reference, >6 µg/dL) were within normal reference ranges. Serum osmolality was reduced (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg), whereas urine osmolality was substantially increased (900 mOsm/kg; reference, >300 mOsm/kg), accompanied by elevated urinary sodium (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), indicating compromised renal water clearance. Notably, despite the presence of hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) concentration was increased (22.4 pg/mL). Electrocardiogram findings were unremarkable, as were imaging studies including chest X-ray and CT scans of the head, chest, and abdomen. Collectively, these results were consistent with a diagnosis of SIADH.

By the third day, the patient’s headache and vertigo had intensified. Despite the absence of nuchal rigidity or cranial nerve deficits, there was concern for central nervous system inflammation. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain did not show any notable abnormalities affecting the hypothalamus or other regions (figure 2). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) evaluation demonstrated a slightly elevated opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), increased protein content (0.97 g/L), and a modest lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). Microbiological studies of the CSF, including cultures and assays for bacterial and mycobacterial organisms, as well as HSV, VZV, and cryptococcal antigen, all yielded negative results. CSF cytology excluded the presence of malignant cells.

Additional diagnostic work-up was undertaken to identify possible underlying systemic illnesses. Markers for sarcoidosis, including lysozyme (5.1 µg/mL; reference 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (11.4 U/L; reference 7–25), were within normal limits. Hematological evaluation demonstrated an elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) (704 U/mL; reference, 122–496 U/mL), but the patient tested negative for human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 antibody.

By day 5, a painful ulceration developed on the scrotum (figure 1D). Alongside concurrent oral aphthae and rashes resembling folliculitis, this clinical picture was indicative of a systemic manifestation of BD. There was no evidence of hypersensitivity following a pinprick test. Ocular assessment did not detect any signs of uveitis. HLA-B51 testing was positive.

Differential diagnosis:

Upon admission, the constellation of symptoms—fever, headache, general malaise, and hyponatraemia—raised suspicion for either a central nervous system infection or a systemic inflammatory condition. Viral meningoencephalitis, especially from HSV or VZV, was initially considered likely. Nevertheless, cerebrospinal fluid analysis failed to detect viral antigens or antibodies, effectively ruling out these viral etiologies. Bacterial meningitis was also entertained as a differential diagnosis, but was excluded because of the absence of neutrophilic predominance, only slight lymphocytic pleocytosis, and negative CSF cultures. Tuberculous meningitis was similarly deemed unlikely, given negative results for acid-fast staining and tuberculosis DNA assays.

A primary CNS neoplasm was contemplated owing to the neurological presentation, but both the brain MRI and CSF cytology returned normal, providing no evidence for malignancy. Though a slight elevation in sIL-2R was detected, this laboratory finding was not sufficient by itself to confirm CNS lymphoma.

Autoimmune processes were also systematically assessed and excluded, as there were neither typical systemic manifestations nor positive findings on autoantibody screens. Neurosarcoidosis remained a remote possibility, given that MRI may initially appear normal in such cases; however, laboratory findings did not support this diagnosis, and the mildly increased sIL-2R level was ultimately interpreted as nonspecific.

The diagnosis of definite BD was based on the clinical picture, which featured fever, fatigue, oral aphthae (scoring two points), genital aphthosis (scoring two points), and a folliculitis-like rash (scoring one point), totaling five points as per the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease (with a threshold of ≥4 points required). Genital aphthosis, in particular, is considered a highly specific manifestation of BD and lends strong support to this diagnosis. Following comprehensive exclusion of infectious, neoplastic, and autoimmune causes, the patient was diagnosed with acute neuro-BD, supported by the concurrence of CNS symptoms and mucocutaneous involvement.

Treatment:

Upon admission (day 1), clinicians suspected an underlying inflammatory disorder, though its precise origin was indeterminate. Empirical antimicrobial treatment with cefepime was commenced after blood cultures were obtained, addressing the possibility of a bacterial infection despite the lack of a clearly identifiable infectious site.

By day 3, the patient experienced increasing severity of headache and vertigo, raising concern for possible CNS infection or inflammation. Acyclovir therapy was empirically initiated but subsequently discontinued when laboratory testing excluded HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On day 8, colchicine therapy was introduced subsequent to diagnoses of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD. Management of oral aphthous ulcers involved topical corticosteroid ointment, while genital ulcers and cutaneous manifestations were addressed with silver sulfadiazine cream. SIADH was treated with conservative measures including restriction of fluid intake to less than 800 mL/day, close daily monitoring of serum sodium, and prevention of rapid sodium correction. The use of hypertonic saline and vasopressin receptor antagonists was not deemed necessary.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient's fever subsided and his appetite increased the day following initiation of colchicine therapy. Over the next two weeks, his various symptoms—including vertigo, malaise, hiccups, and mucocutaneous lesions—showed gradual improvement. By the sixteenth day, his serum sodium had normalized at 136 mmol/L, and ADH concentrations had dropped to 1.8 pg/mL. Levels of myogenic enzymes also returned to within normal limits.

Notably, no systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents were administered throughout his treatment course. The patient was discharged after one month in the hospital, during which the acute phase was resolved, hyponatraemia was vigilantly tracked and addressed, and rehabilitation was provided to address his physical deconditioning. Colchicine therapy was maintained for nearly four years without relapse of BD or recurrence of neurological manifestations. After stabilization of his BD, biguanide therapy was introduced, resulting in sustained good glycaemic control.

Discussion:

This case presented the uncommon concurrent diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, underscoring a rare clinical scenario. Additionally, it showed that acute neuro-BD can be associated with SIADH. The resolution of mucocutaneous lesions, neurological symptoms, and hyponatraemia after colchicine monotherapy suggests there may be a direct relationship among BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. In individuals with BD who develop fever or headache in conjunction with hyponatraemia, acute neuro-BD should be considered as a possible etiology.

A key point in this case was the concurrent identification of both systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, supported by mucocutaneous findings and central nervous system involvement. Major organ manifestations, such as CNS involvement, most often emerge approximately four years post-initial BD diagnosis, and neurological symptoms at first presentation are infrequent, appearing in less than 5% of cases. Direct headache attribution to neuro-BD is found in only about 10% of affected patients. Consequently, recognizing neuro-BD at disease onset was especially challenging in this instance. Acute neuro-BD typically manifests as a transient meningoencephalitis, which may or may not be accompanied by focal neurological signs. In this patient, brain MRI was unremarkable, failing to reveal changes in characteristic regions affected by BD, such as the hypothalamus. Acute neuro-BD can manifest as aseptic meningitis in the absence of brain parenchymal lesions, and a normal brain MRI—especially in early disease—does not eliminate the possibility of neuro-BD, complicating the diagnostic process further. Although HLA-B51 analysis was conducted, it did not aid diagnosis, consistent with international BD guidelines, which prioritize clinical findings and do not mandate HLA-B51. Ultimately, this case emphasizes the need to maintain a high index of suspicion for neuro-BD in BD patients with mucocutaneous symptoms who present with ambiguous neurological complaints.

At the outset of the differential diagnosis process, we initially focused on infectious etiologies for the CNS inflammation, prompted by the co-occurrence of unexplained fever, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia; nonetheless, no definitive infectious agent was detected. We subsequently broadened the differential to include additional inflammatory causes such as connective tissue disorders and malignancies, with specific attention to sarcoidosis and haematologic cancers. Consequently, a comprehensive initial assessment was undertaken, including assays for autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE, and sIL-2R, primarily to exclude possible diagnoses rather than as a response to strong clinical suspicion. These tests were thus ordered with a narrow intent as part of a strategy centered on ruling out certain conditions. Ultimately, there was no supporting evidence—clinical, radiological, or within CSF studies—affirming these potential diagnoses, and these ancillary tests did not materially assist in reaching a conclusive diagnosis. The diagnostic value of ACE for sarcoidosis remains limited due to its low sensitivity, and while sIL-2R can sometimes aid in the workup for malignant lymphoma, slight elevations lack specificity and generally indicate non-specific inflammatory activity. In this patient's scenario, the absence of genital ulceration early in the disease course complicated the consideration of BD, necessitating an expanded differential. This diagnostic trajectory underscores the necessity for judicious use of ancillary testing, reminding clinicians to reserve such investigations for situations with adequate clinical justification and to interpret findings with discernment.

While drug-induced SIADH has been documented in individuals with BD undergoing treatment with agents like cyclophosphamide, the link between acute neuro-BD and the development of SIADH has not been clearly elucidated. Neuro-BD involves inflammation within the central nervous system, a process that could potentially lead to abnormal ADH regulation. Prior research indicates that interleukin-6 (IL-6)—a proinflammatory cytokine commonly elevated in neuroinflammatory states—can drive increased ADH secretion. In the context of BD, monocyte dysregulation triggers spontaneous IL-6 production, and heightened concentrations of IL-6 have been observed in the cerebrospinal fluid of those experiencing acute neuro-BD. These observations imply that inflammation mediated by IL-6 may play a role in the pathogenesis of SIADH in this clinical scenario. Although this case report did not assess IL-6 levels in serum or CSF, the presence of a substantially increased serum CRP could serve as an indirect marker of an IL-6–related inflammatory process. Despite SIADH being linked to multiple conditions such as central nervous system inflammation, pulmonary disorders, neoplasms, and various pharmacological agents, the current evidence is insufficient to definitively establish causality between SIADH and acute neuro-BD. The sequence of events documented here may be indicative of a general response to CNS inflammation, rather than a mechanism unique to neuro-BD.

This case further demonstrates the range of complications that can arise from SIADH-induced hyponatraemia in acute neuro-BD. Prior literature has highlighted that persistent hiccups may provide a valuable clinical indication of severe hyponatraemia secondary to SIADH resulting from central nervous system inflammation, such as that seen in meningitis. Moreover, our assessment included measuring CK to investigate nonspecific symptoms such as fever, arthralgia, and generalized fatigue, given their potential link to inflammatory or metabolic muscle injury; this led to the detection of rhabdomyolysis. Although rhabdomyolysis is a well-documented, it is frequently neglected complication of marked hyponatraemia and is seldom specifically tested for. These clinical features, while recognized, are often insufficiently emphasized as significant sequelae of profound hyponatraemia. It is essential for clinicians to recognize that symptoms seemingly unrelated to electrolyte imbalance—including hiccups and rhabdomyolysis—may, in fact, signal hidden disturbances in electrolyte homeostasis, especially in the context of neuroinflammatory disease.
------
===== NEW BATCH 6 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Corticosteroids remain the cornerstone therapy for acute neuro-BD, with the majority of patients exhibiting a positive therapeutic response. Nonetheless, there are documented instances of spontaneous improvement in patients whose clinical presentation is limited to meningoencephalitis-like features. In the case described here, administration of colchicine alone led to amelioration of both mucocutaneous and neurological manifestations, in addition to correcting hyponatraemia. Colchicine’s anti-inflammatory properties are mediated through the inhibition of neutrophil motility and activation, as well as the suppression of cytokine synthesis, particularly IL-1β and IL-6. Although colchicine is routinely prescribed to manage the mucocutaneous symptoms of BD, evidence from systematic reviews indicates that it does not have significant efficacy in treating acute neuro-BD, where immunosuppressants are typically necessary to achieve sufficient disease control. Indeed, the literature generally describes colchicine being used as an adjunctive agent alongside corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive medications, rather than as the sole therapy. While it is possible that the observed improvements in this case could be attributed to spontaneous recovery, these observations imply that colchicine might represent a viable therapeutic alternative for acute neuro-BD and associated complications such as SIADH, especially in scenarios where corticosteroid use is not feasible or is contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We reported an uncommon presentation of BD alongside simultaneous onset of acute neuro-BD, where SIADH emerged as a complication of neuro-BD. This case underscores that SIADH can arise secondary to acute neuro-BD, emphasizing the necessity for clinicians to recognize this possible link. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in swift resolution of mucocutaneous lesions, neurological deficits, and hyponatraemia, indicating colchicine's potential as an effective early intervention for neuro-BD. For BD patients exhibiting vague central nervous system symptoms—such as fever and headache—accompanied by hyponatraemia, clinicians should remain vigilant for the possibility of acute neuro-BD complicated by SIADH.<|im_end|><|im_end|>.

It would be interesting to do some experimental and practical work, to assess the validity of the idea that malt can be made in a well, using a basket. I wondered how much malt could have been made in this way. There would not be enough to supply large vats like those at Hierakonopolis, a predynastic site in Egypt, which were probably used as mash tuns.

Beer was being made here in industrial quantities.

The vats, probably mash tuns, at Hierakonopolis, Egypt. Source here
The Egyptians must have used floors for germinating the barley. A malting floor is not an obvious thing to identify in the archaeological record. All that's required is a smooth level floor surface within a building. It's something that has been overlooked in the interpretation of archaeological sites. Archaeologists don't often interpret the remains of a building as having possibly been a grain barn or a floor surface as having been being suitable for making malt.

Eric talked about malting floors and the potential evidence for the manufacture of ale in prehistory. I was rather pleased that, on his next slide, he showed some of the evidence for the making of malt and ale in Neolithic Britain. That's my research.

There is good evidence for the manufacture of malt and ale at some of the Orcadian neolithic sites, such as Skara Brae and Barnhouse, six thousand years ago. At Skara Brae there were sherds from a large 30 gallon pot found beside the central hearth. Excavated by Vere Gordon Childe in the 1930s, no residue analysis was done on these pot sherds. Its' location would be an ideal spot for a fermenting barley wort. At the site of Barnhouse, another neolithic village, there was a possible malting floor as well as many drains which are essential for a brewer. Analysis of pot sherds using the technique of Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry revealed "unidentified sugars and barley lipids" in the fabric of the pottery. It's a possible indication of sparging. If they were sparging to obtain a wort then they must have been making malt and ale. 

If you want to read more about neolithic and bronze age evidence, I suggest you have a look here at an article we wrote for Orkneyjar a few years ago. It's about the prehistoric transformation of grain into ale. You'll also find links to my published academic papers and to my thesis. I know of no other archaeologists who are working on the archaeological evidence for the manufacture of barley malt and ale in the neolithic. It seems to be considered a controversial topic by some academics, or so I am told. That's why I was pleased to see my work referred to at this malting seminar. Clearly the professional maltsters, brewers and distillers have no problem with the idea.

Eric described how floor malting is labour intensive, requiring skilled and dedicated people. It was the only way of making malt until the mid 19th century. The malt must be turned and raked on the floor, as well as being moved around the maltings from steep tank to germination floor, and from there to the kiln floor. It takes many workers to make the malt.

Modern pneumatic maltings changed all of this.

Two Belgian malting engineers, Galland and Saladin, are considered to be the fathers of modern pneumatic malting. In 1873 Galland designed a system of aerated rectangular boxes. A few years later, in 1880, Saladin introduced a mechanised turning system. The new integrated system of aeration and mechanical turning of the malt by Archimedes screws was called
a saladin box.

A few Saladin boxes are in use today, this one is at Tamdu Distillery
, source here

The workers who turned the malt cannot have been happy about this. For many, it meant the loss of their job. It was, in so many ways, a revolution in the malting industry, although it took several decades, until the 1960s, before Saladin boxes became commonplace in a maltings.

The technology of making malt developed rapidly. By the early 1970s, Saladin drums were being made and used. These are far larger and capable of producing thirty to fifty tonnes of malt at a time, in a continuous batching process. They can be operated all year round, in contrast to a traditional floor maltings that were subject to weather and temperature (see previous post). Much less manpower is needed, there is a lower cost of production. They consistently produce good quality malt in the quantity that is required today in the modern brewing and distilling business.

Germinating Kilning Vessel at Crisp's Maltings, source here

Germinating Kilning Vessels, can make up to 500 tons of malt at a time. I've not yet seen a large industrial maltings and have never looked inside one of these Germinating Kilning Vessels, but here's a man who has. Jeff Evans, on his blog inside beer, describes the experience:

"I climbed the stairs of one of these enormous, modern cylindrical towers to discover vast stainless-steel steeping tanks, malting floors and kilns. Having seen the simple, homely methods of the floor maltings, the scale and functionality came as a shock. Each of the tanks handles more than ten times the amount the entire floor malting facility can process in one go. 

At the push of a few buttons, the process gets underway – steeping, germination, kilning. Such are the efficiencies that germination is a day shorter here, and kilning only takes two days. The equipment is also much easier to clean, so you can see why new technology has its supporters in the industry. 

Once malted, the grains are quickly shipped out to breweries or malt merchants. Crisp’s job is done. The brewer will ultimately claim the credit for his wonderful beer, but, as the old saying puts it, you can’t make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear. There’s a lot of skill and care that goes into that drink even before the brewer starts his work. 

The next time you are entranced by a hoppy aroma as you raise a pint to your lips, stop, wait and think. Look beyond the green, tangy, zesty glory boys that steal the limelight and remember the malt and the maltster, the forgotten heroes of brewing."

In his final remarks about malt and malting techniques, Eric Walker reminded us of some of the fundamental principles.

Malt is a living thing. If it is not correctly steeped it can either drown or asphyxiate. It needs careful handling. The maltsters who make malt in these large vessels take as much care of it as the traditional floor maltster, there's a whole new set of skills and knowledge involved in the craft of making huge batches of good quality malt. The maltster's rub, whereby the maltster judges when it is ready for kilning, still applies. Ancient skills and knowledge are combined with modern technology.

Malting, he said

"is a process utilised by the ancients to produce palatable alcoholic beverages: ale and beer."

I couldn't agree more.

PS In one of my earlier blogs I've asked:  where have all the malting floors gone?

No comments:

Post a comment<|endoftext|>Do Raccoons Frequent Your Property? Follow A Few Tips To Keep Them Away

Posted on: 7 October 2016


It may be quite enjoyable to spot wildlife in their natural habitat while on hiking or camping adventures. But, when you find an animal like a raccoon ravaging your plants or going through your trash, you might be thinking about what you can do to keep these bandits from causing trouble. A lot of what you can do revolves around prevention, whether it is adding or taking away certain things that they like or dislike. So, that is exactly what you should focus on to start seeing their numbers dwindle on your property.

Grow Deterrent Plants

Raccoons love to eat a lot of plants, but there are still quite a few that they are not fans of. Creating a treacherous territory to traverse is one way to get raccoons to think twice before entering your landscape. These plants include pumpkins, poppies, and thistle, all of which are common plants to have. It may require strategical placement to maximize their effectiveness, but a professional should be able to help you out, especially if you show them where the raccoons are causing the most problems.

Secure the Trash Cans

You can do tons of the work to your property's yard, but all it takes is an open trash can to continue giving them an invitation. It is crucial to always secure your trash can to fix this problem. One easy solution is to keep the bin inside your garage, but this can lead to an undesirable odor. Try putting a heavy object on the top or using a couple of bungee cords to secure the bin without having to tie any knots. Another option is making a spicy solution that deters the raccoons from getting nearby. A cayenne pepper mix is achievable by mixing a dash of dish soap, cayenne pepper, and a large amount of water in a spray bottle.

Skip the Bird Seed

It might be tempting to put out bird seed to invite some flying creatures to your property, but doing this also invites raccoons, squirrels, and even insects. It is best to transition into something less problematic such as a hummingbird feeder, in which the only thing you need to worry about is ants. Also, you do not need to provide hummingbirds with an open water source, as opposed to birds that benefit from a bath. So not giving raccoons a way to clean up and drink water will deter them from your yard.

These adjustments should be effective for controlling the raccoon population, but do not hesitate to take it a step further by hiring a pest control company like BugOut Pest Control to help you with guaranteed solutions.<|endoftext|>@conference {89259, title = {Does Production Worth and Breeding Worth reflect cow profitability?}, booktitle = {Proceedings of the New Zealand Society of Animal Production}, volume = {73}, year = {2013}, month = {Jan}, pages = {17-20}, publisher = {New Zealand Society of Animal Production}, organization = {New Zealand Society of Animal Production}, address = {Hamilton}, abstract = {

Production worth (PW) is an economic index estimating the efficiency that a cow converts feed into farm profit. Breeding worth (BW) is another economic index that estimates a cow{\textquoteright}s or sire{\textquoteright}s ability to breed profitable replacements. This study evaluates how well PW and BW are correlated with net income (NI) per 4.5 tonnes (t) of dry matter (DM) consumed on a pasture based New Zealand dairy farm. During the 2009/10 season at Massey Number 4 Dairy Farm, cow milk yield and composition were determined at monthly herd tests, and live weight data was automatically collected twice daily using a walk-over-weigh system. The results show that this herd is achieving a genetic gain of $6.74 BW per year. Correlations of 0.52 and 0.31 (P \<0.001) were found between NI per 4.5 t DM and PW and BW, respectively. The NI per 4.5 t DM was higher in cows between 3- to 9-years-old than first lactation cows. The NI per 4.5 t DM was also strongly correlated with the milk, fat and protein yields (P \<0.001). This study confirms that PW, rather than BW, better reflects the genetic capability of a cow to convert feed into farm profit.

}, issn = {1176-5283}, author = {Clark BJ and Garcia-Muniz JG and Black PJ and Lopez-Villalobos N} }<|endoftext|>The news cycle is dominated by stories of bad behavior by men.  The “Me -Too” movement has exposed countless examples of sexual abuse and harassment by men especially by men in powerful positions.   It has galvanized women to become more involved in politics and to add new energy to gender equality issues – equal pay, paid maternity leave, etc..   The call to finally put an end to male supremacy in all walks of life is again at the forefront of the feminist agenda.  Nothing mentioned should be opposed by thoughtful men who respect the best of their masculinity   However,  there seems to be unintended consequences..  According to the LA Times, only about half of all boys expect to work in well-paid professional jobs when they grow up, compared to nearly three quarters of girls. In other words, we’re somehow teaching young boys that either learning is ‘girl’s stuff’, or that there’s no point in being aspirational.

There appears to be an enormous disconnect between the beliefs and behavior of adult men –  the patriarchy  – with the beliefs of boys.   Yes, a small percentage of men have looked to the retrograde “manosphere” to reinforce their attitudes about male supremacy.  On the other hand, the vast majority of adult men, without feeling overly defensive about their masculinity, have rallied to support gender equality and championed the end of sexual abuse not only in the workplace but in all aspects of society.   But what about our boys?   Does the data reported in the LA Times suggest that many boys have simply given up and see manhood as being subjugated by matriarchy?  What will the result be if boys have given up?   One could easily make the argument that the school shooters are non-aspirational lost boys who have channeled their powerlessness into pointless violent acts.   If we ignore our lost boys we not only increase the risk of violent acts but lose the potential that these boys can contribute to our society.  Educators and parents need to make sure that we are not losing our boys and find ways to help them take pride in their gender that is not based on the diminishment of women.

Hopefully we can expand the conversation about male dominance and gender equality to include the impact on those men young and old who are struggling to recalibrate their attitudes about their masculinity.  Girls are rightfully being given the message that they can achieve their fullest potential without fear of sexual abuse and gender discrimination.    What message are we giving our boys?

Me Too Backlash?

Recently a Meet Up invitation arrived in my mailbox with just one word as a descriptor – Fight Club.   Intrigued,  I wondered if this was just a direct reference to the 1999 movie Fight Club or was this a symbolic invitation to join the hyper masculine “manosphere.”   After further research I came across two other online communities who also worship the gospel of Fight Club.  The Red Pill, which describes itself as a place for “discussion of sexual strategy in a culture lacking a positive identity for men,” and the more hard line group Men Going Their Own Way(MGTOW), which refuses to engage in any relationship with women whatsoever. Members from both groups see Fight Club as a story of redemption, the tale of a beta male achieving his true alpha potential. The manosphere’s affinity for Fight Club stems from a common central, biologically deterministic claim: ” Men are naturally predisposed to being violent, dominant hunter gatherers, who, having found themselves domesticated by modern civilization, are now in a state of crisis”.

My sense is that increased attention to the “manosphere” is a result of the perception that the  “Me Too” movement is an attack on men and masculinity.  Men are on the defensive and many feel they have to apologize not so much for their own behavior but for the gender in general.   My concern is that the unintended consequence of  “Me Too” will push more men into to seek refuge in the  manosphere  which will only bring more polarization and less of the constructive dialogue that is desperately needed to restore common sense in the workplace.    It is crucial that the same mistakes made by many of the diversity programs adopted by corporate America will not be repeated by sexual harassment programs.   The data suggests that overly prescriptive trainings focusing on do’s and dont’s have actually impeded workplace diversity.   Introspection and constructive dialogue between men and women in the work environment  is needed and will only happen if we lower the temperature of the most strident voices and avoid the inevitable gender wars with casualties on both sides.<|endoftext|>If Hillary leads US, it will be better for India

Hillary is known for taking an unequivocal stand against terrorism and had been delivering tough messages to Pakistan
Known Friend: Hillary is known for taking an unequivocal stand against terrorism and had been delivering tough messages to Pakistan

The US presidential election this year has been billed as the “most consequential election”. It is also a historic election with a contest between the first ever female candidate for the post and a maverick businessman who has never held a public post in that country.

Besides the fact that it would elect the world’s most powerful person, the campaign has held worldwide attention because of the bizarre and unconventional, and even dangerous, worldview of Republican candidate Donald Trump. He has insulted and mocked various sections of the society including martyrs, immigrants, Muslims and even people with physical disabilities. What has added to the shocking views of the man is the revelations about his own degrading and humiliating views about women.

He has been increasingly getting into a self
------
 a new heart
You died to sin
You were raised to a new life in Christ

In Christ you receive new life.
His life has replaced your old life.
Christ is the Promised ingredient that has made you instantly a New Creation.
You are now seated in heavenly places.
You are now seated on the throne of honor.
You are now blessed with every spiritual blessing in Christ.

As Christ is NOW so now are you!


Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...<|endoftext|>Monday, May 1, 2017

Philosophy of Greens

No green tube paint will ever, or can ever, mimic the greens of the natural world.  I struggled for years, wondering which green most closely resembled nature.  And I came close when I said, 'chrome oxide green'; however, now I feel that no straight green from a tube is natural.  Mixed greens are more natural, more real to what we are capable of seeing with our eyes.  And greens are highly dependent upon their environments and surroundings in order to look correct or 'right'.  For this reason, green is a difficult color with which to paint.  Think of a painting that has attempted to use all green and has successfully pulled it off.  I cannot.  Perhaps this has become my new challenge: an attempt at green.  So much of woodland green is black or dark brown.  And so much of garden green is actually more focus on the colors of surrounding flowers.  Green is more than a mix of blue and is chlorophyll.  Is it possible to capture and paint the effects of chlorophyll?  Is that why green is so hard to paint with?  If it is, that means green is largely dependent on the sun for its physical properties.  So then, what does this mean for all the other colors?

-an excerpt from my journal 7/31/07

Friday, March 3, 2017

Memory: sitting & looking, thinking, reflecting, remembering.  It's a tricky thing sometimes.  It is part of us.  It helps make, create and, at times, define us.  I have a friend who swears by my memory and would not question it (as they say, 'an elephant never forgets'); though sometimes I do, based on memory jogs, internal brain misfirings and of course, self doubt.  Regardless, memory has always been strong with me, ingrained or perhaps burned into my brain.  At times it's hard to forget and others hard to let go.  There's both good memories and those that aren't so good, but all those were once experiences that helped shape who we are.  In growth, we take the good memories with the unpleasant ones.  I find sometimes that it's the unpleasant ones that at times are the most defining, leading to growth of character.  And as such, I love the memory of dreams; I don't mean the 'hopes and dreams' in life, but our actual dream state of sleep.  There is something even more peculiar about that type of memory, because many times a dream memory is not so lucid, but rather, tiny bits of information processing in a different functional state, conscious memory vs. sleep-dream sequence, or some filtering of both.  Like a definition, I find writing it all down, yet another function of memory, a written remembrance to look back upon from time to time; much like the art being created to feel and convey the physicality of memory.   

* the image is one of my 6"x6" encaustic paintings, combining layered papers, pigments and drawings: loose images I had saved in a sketchbook from 2004, text from a recent read, and a paper printout of memory that a peer had randomly handed me while teaching a class.  To see more in this series, please visity my website:<|endoftext|>Herding goats (and other animals)

A while back, I promised to tell a bit more about my work at the goat yard here at Ne’ot Semadar.

So this is what it looks like at the milking area of the Dir, which is the Hebrew word for goat yard.

The goats come into the milking area, stick their head into the trough, and activate a lock mechanism that prevents them from leaving until we’ve had time to milk them. So they’re stuck with their heads in the feed and their butts facing the world.

I get to look at a lot of goat butts these days, as I’m quite a few shifts milking and feeding the goats.

The Neot Semadar goat herd consists of 240 lactating female goats, 10 fully grown male goats, 60 small female goats and 5 small male goats.

The grown female goats are milked in the morning from around 5.45 and in the evening from around 16.30. Each goat produces around 2.5 litres of milk a day on average, so the daily total is around 600 litres.

All of that milk is taken to the local dairy to be turned into yoghurt, lassi, various kinds of cheeses and ice cream. Some is also just skimmed for use in the coffee or the kids’ cereal.

One of the best things about working with the goats is taking them out to pasture. Here the young female goats, the nigmalot, are grazing quietly around 7.30 am. And while they eat, you get to sit and contemplate, enjoying the morning as much as they do.

Some of the goats have more personality than others. And this one is especially outgoing. This is Nerchama (the ch is pronounced as in German like a throat clearing noise, not as the “ch” in “chair.”). It is a Hebrew name that means “consolation” or “comfort”.

Nerchama is one of the biggest, and thus one of the hungriest goats in the herd. This means that she will come back into the milking area when other goats are coming out to have seconds. On this photo she is in her favourite pose: Waiting for the gate to the milking area to open so that she can run in and snatch a few leftovers. 

She is quite strong, and usually the best tactic for getting her out of the milking area is to pull her by the ears, which, as you can see, are already quite long.

There are ten male goats that are kept separate from the rest of the herd, and for good reason. They only have one thing on their mind. Having seen male goats up close I understand fully why the devil is commonly depicted as half-goat half-man.

With their big horns, their long beards and their eyes with weird elongated pupils they look decidedly other-worldly up close. They are like the incarnation of the archetypical male features: They swagger, they butt horns and fight, they exude a heavy, sweet musk. In short, they are the incarnation of the desire to procreate. Some of them even come up and rub themselves against against us when we take them out to pasture.

As Isaac, who is one of the people in charge of the goat yard, says, the males are hot right now. And the time is close: Within a couple of weeks, they will start the mating.

Another interesting character of the goat yard is the goose. It follows the herd around everywhere. To the point where popular imagination has it that it is goose that thinks it is a goat. Here it is seen drinking from the goats’ water trough:

Story has it that there used to be two geese, and they would always make violent racket in the yard, annoying everybody who worked there. One day, one of the geese disappeared. Only a few days later was it discovered that it had – literally – fallen into a ditch and died. It was a hole dug for some irrigation piping, and it had been unable to climb up. The goat yard volunteers, rather cynically, rejoiced.

Yet another strange resident around the goat yard is this desert antilope. The kibbutzniks found it years ago lying injured close to the kibbutz, and they brought it in and took care of it. And it has been part of the herd ever since.

The goats mostly ignore it, and it just sort of does its own thing most of the time. But it is often around when there’s food to be had. Here it is joining in while the male goats are eating.

 One annoyance that comes with the territory in the Dir is the flies. The combination of warm goatshit and lots of fresh milk attracts a lot of flies. Apparently, they also like the warmth of the electrical kettle:

1 thought on “Herding goats (and other animals)

Leave a Reply
<|endoftext|>Paso Doble


The Paso Doble is a traditional, lively couple’s dance that despite its French origin was immediately adopted by the Spanish community. It is usually danced to music played at bullfights when the fighter enters the ring or just before a kill in a Spanish or Portuguese bullfight. Paso Doble mean ‘two step’. The dance became popular in the United States in the 1930s. In any dance sequence, the male is characterized as the bullfighter or matador and the lady as his cape. The dancers enact the role of the bull, picador, torero or Spanish dancer and can change roles during the routine.

Paso Doble is based on the Flamenco, and is considered more of a competitive dance form rather than a social dance. It is both arrogant and passionate, which are elements that must be portrayed by both partners. This style of dancing is a progressive dance form, and one of the most dramatic of Latin dances where dancers make strong movements while stepping forward with the heels. It also involves the integration of artistic hand movements all throughout the routine. The forward steps or walks are strong and proud. The male partner must incorporate a movement in which he stamps his foot like a matador striking the ground in order to attraction the bull’s attention. The movements are sharp and quick while the chest and head held high at all times to portray a mood of arrogance and dignity.

The Paso Doble is based on a 2/4 rhythm with a simple 1-2-1-2 march. There are very few rhythm changes throughout the routine. The temp is usually brisk ranging from 60 to 124 beats per minute. The basic rhythm is a march or one step per beat. One of the most interesting elements of the dance form is dramatic poses which both partners must perform in conjunction with the music. Some of the distinctive steps include Separation, Huit, Attack, Flamenco Taps and Spanish Line, to name a few.

Being synonymous with Spanish culture, the Paso Doble is undoubtedly one of the most exciting dances to learn especially if you want to be involved in competition or exhibition dancing. This is definitely not a dance for a crowded dance floor since it involves plenty of movement all around. It would be prudent to learn the Paso Doble along with a partner since you are not likely to encounter one at your local club so easily. Learning the dance form may be challenging but the rewards are plenty. Just make sure you are game for a great deal of acting and showmanship.

Should you have additional questions or want to signup for one of the dance classes, please call us at (212) 473-2623!<|endoftext|>Home About Us the Rabbis Contact Us

what's new on Revach
Motza'ei Shabbos Dress Code, To Change or Not to Change

Leil HaSeder Alone in The Shadow of Corona

Stopping Corona: Overwhelmed With Eitzos?

Parshas Tzav: Rabbeinu Bachaye - Covering the Shame of Sinners

[view all questions in this category]

Section: Questions   Category: Halacha
TAGS:Kohein  krias hatorah
Halacha - selling aliyos
Submitted by Yissacher Moskowitz  Answered by Rav Peretz Moncharsh
Answer: No, however the Kohein may be asked to leave the shul before his aliya. Really, aliyos should be called in the order of the individual's importance. The first aliyos were designated for the Kohein and Levi to prevent fighting over the highest kibuddim. If they were allowed to be mochel it would defeat the entire purpose of the takana.
posted:2011-01-16 22:26:18

printable version     email to a friend

Send Your Comments
Name optional
Display my name?
Yes   No
EMAIL optional
Your email address is kept private.
COMMENTS required
    Most Viewed Lists
  1. "Zissen" Pesach
  2. Toivel Hot water Urn
  3. Bracha for bANANAS
  4. sprinkler on Shabbos clock
  5. candle lighting
    Last Viewed
  1. selling aliyos
  2. Mayim Achronim set
  3. Terumah and Maaser
  4. wipes
  5. Kosher Vegetables<|endoftext|>Freja rune
Рейтинг 84 из 88 на основе 158 просмотров.

Rune of date:
19-12-1969 - Perthro

perthro - letter P


Rune by horoscope:
- Berkano

berkano - letter B


Rune of year:
1969 - rune Fehu

fehu - letter F


Luck 19-12-1969

158 %%HITS%% 158
Page last modify 2020-07-06 17:25:10 2020-07-06 17:25:10

Luck 19-12-1969

luck - Write name LUCK in runes  - ᛚᚢᚲᚲ - Runic characteristics of the name  LUCK -


[[Waxing Gibbous]]
Moon day: 10
Moon phase : Waxing Gibbous
Today is 2020-07-06 17:25:10.
[[Waxing Gibbous]]

Fúthark runes
Northumbrian runes

3 Runes Runescript

Runes meanings ‹Kenaz-Laguz-Uruz› three runes divination

1. Kenaz (kenaz)

In the first position - Rune indicates that there is a positive and creative force, the source of which is your heart. You will be visible will be paying attention to you. The feeling of heat in the chest area of ​​disclosure will not only open any door and enter, but also to succeed. Now it is important to a favorable attitude to what is happening, because the light coming from within you, not only can heal. In some matters Fleece is an indicator of interest or business of the creative process, the flame which consumes time and manpower involved in it. It may mean a revelation, a new creative idea, as well as inspiration.

Kenaz reverse

In the first position - secretive, closed-door, procrastination. Rune indicates a lack of clarity in the conduct of affairs, lack of sincerity and warmth. Now useless to walk the chain of command, to try to give gifts and make purchases. All the action can be accompanied by irritability, resentment or obstacles. Some issues suggests that the root of the problem may be in the past. Also indicate depression or painful memories. Sometimes it is an indication of the current process is hidden, like the pupal stage at the butterflies.

2. Laguz (laguz)


Laguz reverse


3. Uruz (uruz)


Uruz reverse
<|endoftext|>The Coke and Mentos Experiment


This 3 minutes movie was released about two weeks ago. It displays The Extreme Diet Coke & Mentos Experiment #137. Incredible and funny, is it not? I read somewhere that Mentos company hired both guys for their next advertising campaign.

Since we are in a serious place here, it was but underhand lead-in for a lesson of physics and chemistry: how can little Mentos have such a tremendous effect on a peaceful bottles of Diet Coke? Everyone will agree on the premises: the carbon dioxide (CO2) compressed into the soda escapes so rapidly that the pressure pushes it out of the bottle. It's like shaking a bottle before you open it, but even more dramatic.

Several people theorized that a substance called gum arabic in the Mentos breaks the surface tension of the soda, allowing the CO2 bubbles to escape rapidly. This explanation doesn't completely work though, since several items that contain no gum arabic also cause soda to foam violently.

The primary cause appears to be physical, not chemical: when a liquid is supersaturated with gas, like soda is with CO2, gas is able to form bubbles on nucleation sites (that are places with high surface area in a very small volume, such as scratches on a surface or specks of dust).

Mentos seem to be loaded with nucleation sites: there are so many microscopic nooks and crannies on their surface that an incredible number of bubbles will form when you drop one in a bottle of soda. Since the Mentos are also heavy enough to sink, they react with the soda all the way to the bottom. The escaping bubbles quickly turn into a raging foam, and the pressure builds dramatically.

This mechanism is somewhat similar to the way people whose urine is supersaturated with uric acid or calcium crystals often develop kidney stones. Fortunately enough, crystals are not gas, which probably explains why people with kidney stones usually don't explode.

When I'm Sixty-Four

Sargent Pepper's
The Beatles — Sgt Pepper's  Lonely Hearts Club Band

When I'm sixty four was written by Paul McCartney, who sings it on Beatles' album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, released 1967.

Paul McCartney turns 64 today.

When I get older losing my hair,
Many years from now.
Will you still be sending me a valentine
Birthday greetings bottle of wine?

If I'd been out till quarter to three
Would you lock the door?
Will you still need me, will you still feed me,
When I'm sixty-four?

You'll be older too,
And if you say the word,
I could stay with you.

I could be handy, mending a fuse
When your lights have gone.
You can knit a sweater by the fireside
Sunday mornings go for a ride,

Doing the garden, digging the weeds,
Who could ask for more.
Will you still need me, will you still feed me,
When I'm sixty-four?

Every summer we can rent a cottage,
In the Isle of Wight, if it's not too dear
We shall scrimp and save
Grandchildren on your knee
Vera ,Chuck & Dave.

Send me a postcard, drop me a line,
Stating point of view
Indicate precisely what you mean to say
Yours sincerely, wasting away

Give me your answer, fill in a form
Mine for evermore
Will you still need me, will you still feed me
------
===== NEW BATCH 7 | input_ids shape=(2, 3876) | attention_mask shape=(2, 3876) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Building on advancements like BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, the landscape of 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs) is rapidly evolving. In this study, we present a 1-bit LLM variation called \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, which represents all model parameters as ternary values chosen from \{-1, 0, 1\}. This architecture achieves parity with full-precision Transformer LLMs (using FP16 or BF16), maintaining similar levels of perplexity and performance across downstream tasks, while dramatically reducing costs in latency, memory usage, computational throughput, and energy demands. Significantly, the 1.58-bit LLM establishes a novel scaling law and training methodology that enables both efficient and high-performing future generations of LLMs. Moreover, this development introduces new computational paradigms and paves the way for specialized hardware tailored for 1-bit LLM workloads.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

The proliferation of Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to considerable advances in artificial intelligence, particularly within natural language processing. Although these increasingly powerful models exhibit outstanding results across diverse tasks, their scale raises substantial obstacles for deployment and has intensified worries regarding the environmental footprint and financial cost associated with their significant energy demands.

A promising solution to these issues lies in post-training quantization, which seeks to compress model weights and activations by reducing their numerical precision~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. This technique substantially decreases both the memory load and computation required for LLM inference, supporting a shift from 16-bit representations down to even 4-bit alternatives~\cite{gptq, awq}. Nevertheless, despite its widespread adoption in production LLMs, post-training quantization remains a sub-optimal strategy.

Recent advancements in 1-bit model architectures, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, suggest a viable pathway for lowering the operational costs of LLMs without sacrificing accuracy. Standard LLMs typically utilize 16-bit floating-point representations (either FP16 or BF16), and their computations are largely dominated by matrix multiplications. Consequently, the primary computational expense arises from floating-point addition and multiplication. In contrast, BitNet's matrix multiplication exclusively utilizes integer addition, resulting in substantial reductions in energy consumption for LLMs. Given that power often constitutes the fundamental bottleneck in modern hardware accelerators, these energy savings may directly enhance computational throughput.

Beyond computation, the expense associated with shuttling model parameters from DRAM into the on-chip accelerator memory (such as SRAM) during inference is notable. Efforts to expand SRAM have aimed to improve throughput, but such expansions can incur costs far exceeding those of DRAM. 1-bit LLMs, in comparison to their full-precision counterparts, possess considerably smaller memory requirements in terms of both capacity and bandwidth. This property leads to reductions in both the financial and temporal costs of loading weights from DRAM, facilitating faster and more efficient inference.

Here, we present a novel 1-bit LLM extension named \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, characterized by ternary parameters that can assume values in \{-1, 0, 1\}. By introducing the zero value to the initial 1-bit BitNet design, BitNet b1.58 effectively encodes its parameters using 1.58 bits per entry in binary terms. This new variant preserves all key advantages of the original BitNet, including its fundamentally distinct computation framework that eliminates almost all multiplication during matrix multiplications and offers high optimization potential. BitNet b1.58 maintains equivalent energy efficiency and continues to excel in memory use, throughput, and latency relative to FP16 LLM benchmarks. In addition, BitNet b1.58 confers two further benefits: first, the integration of zero supports explicit feature filtering, which enhances its representational capacity and can lead to notable performance gains for 1-bit LLMs; second, experimental evidence demonstrates that, beginning at the 3B parameter scale and with equivalent configurations (such as model size and training tokens), BitNet b1.58 matches FP16 models in terms of perplexity and downstream task performance.

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} builds upon the BitNet model, a Transformer variant in which the standard \emph{nn.Linear} layers are substituted by \emph{BitLinear} layers. Training is performed from the ground up, employing weights quantized to 1.58 bits and activations at 8 bits. While closely related to the initial BitNet, this version features several notable modifications, outlined below.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} To limit the weights to values of -1, 0, or +1, we employ the \emph{absmean} quantization function. This approach initially rescales the weight matrix using the mean of its absolute values and subsequently maps each entry to the closest integer in \{-1, 0, +1\}:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

The activation quantization strategy remains consistent with the implementation in BitNet, aside from a key change: activations are not rescaled to the interval $[0, Q_b]$ prior to the application of non-linearities. Rather, they are uniformly normalized to $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ on a per-token basis, thereby eliminating zero-point quantization. This adjustment not only streamlines both coding and system optimization but, according to our experiments, incurs negligible impact on overall model performance.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

LLaMA~\cite{llama, llama2} serves as a predominant template for open-source LLM backbones. To better align with the open-source community, the architecture of \text{BitNet b1.58} incorporates components inspired by LLaMA. In particular, it utilizes RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, and rotary embeddings~\cite{rope}, and excludes bias parameters throughout the network. This design choice ensures that \text{BitNet b1.58} can be easily plugged into widely used open-source toolkits, such as Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}, requiring minimal adaptation.

\section{Results}

We benchmarked \text{BitNet b1.58} against our FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} replication across multiple model scales. For an equitable evaluation, both architectures underwent pre-training on the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama} for 100 billion tokens. Their zero-shot capabilities were then tested across a diverse set of language understanding tasks: ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. In addition, we assessed validation perplexity using the WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4} corpora.

The runtime GPU memory footprint and inference latency were evaluated for both \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58}. All measurements were carried out using the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} framework, which provides efficient implementations for large-scale language model inference on GPUs. To further optimize \text{BitNet b1.58}, Ladder’s 2-bit kernel~\cite{ladder} was incorporated. We recorded the inference time per generated token, as this metric predominantly determines overall serving costs.

Perplexity and associated computational costs are provided in Table~\ref{tab:ppl} for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. Notably, starting from the 3B parameter scale, \text{BitNet b1.58} approaches the perplexity achieved by the full-precision \text{LLaMA LLM}, while realizing 2.71x higher inference throughput and using only 28\% (i.e., 3.55x less) GPU memory. Specifically, with the 3.9B configuration, \text{BitNet b1.58} delivers 2.4x faster inference, requires 3.32x less memory, and also exceeds the performance of \text{LLaMA LLM} at the 3B scale.

Detailed breakdowns of zero-shot accuracy on downstream tasks can be found in Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot}. The assessment employed the \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}} methodology. These outcomes indicate a diminishing accuracy gap between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} as model sizes scale up. Of particular significance, from the 3B size onward, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves parity with the full-precision reference. Mirroring perplexity trends, \text{BitNet b1.58} with 3.9B parameters outperforms \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B in both task accuracy and resource efficiency, underscoring its Pareto superiority over leading LLM systems.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

We expanded our experiments to include models of 7B, 13B, and 70B parameters and systematically assessed the associated computational cost. Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} presents the patterns observed in both latency and memory usage. Notably, the speed-up effect is more pronounced with increased model scale. Specifically, \text{BitNet b1.58} at 70B parameters demonstrates a 4.1-fold reduction in inference time relative to the \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline. This improvement can be attributed to the fact that the computational burden of \emph{nn.Linear} layers grows proportionally with model size. A parallel pattern appears in memory usage: since the embedding layer remains at full precision, its contribution to total memory consumption decreases as the overall model becomes larger. The reported values for both latency and memory are based on inference with a 2-bit kernel, leaving additional potential for future cost optimizations.

\paragraph{Energy}

Our analysis also includes an estimation of the energy required for arithmetic operations in both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. The evaluation focuses predominantly on matrix multiplication, which is the primary driver of computational cost in LLMs. As illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:energy}, most of the energy for \text{BitNet b1.58} comes from INT8 addition, whereas \text{LLaMA LLM} consumes energy through both FP16 addition and multiplication. Based on the energy consumption model outlined in~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, matrix multiplications on 7nm process nodes using \text{BitNet b1.58} achieve a 71.4-fold reduction in arithmetic operations energy compared to \text{LLaMA LLM}. Furthermore, we calculated end-to-end energy consumption for processing 512 tokens, demonstrating that \text{BitNet b1.58} grows even more energy efficient relative to the FP16-based \text{LLaMA LLM} as model size increases. This trend arises because the relative computational load of \emph{nn.Linear} grows with model scale, whereas other components contribute less to the overall cost in larger architectures.

\paragraph{Throughput}

To assess throughput, we conducted a comparison between \text{BitNet b1.58} and the \text{LLaMA LLM} model with 70B parameters, deploying both on two 80GB A100 GPUs. Pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe} was utilized to accommodate the 70B \text{LLaMA LLM} across the devices. The batch size was progressively increased up to the available GPU memory limit, maintaining a sequence length of 512 throughout the evaluation. According to Table~\ref{tab:throughput}, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B is capable of supporting batch sizes that are up to eleven times larger than those manageable by \text{LLaMA LLM}. This translates into throughput that is 8.9 times higher for \text{BitNet b1.58}.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} introduces a novel scaling law connecting model efficiency and inference cost.} Drawing from the data in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and Figure~\ref{fig:energy}, an approximate correspondence between models operating in 1.58-bit and 16-bit precision can be established as follows:

\begin{itemize}
    \item The 13B BitNet b1.58 outperforms the 3B FP16 LLM regarding latency, memory footprint, and energy efficiency.
    \item The 30B BitNet b1.58 surpasses the 7B FP16 LLM on the same three efficiency measures.
    \item The 70B BitNet b1.58 exceeds the 13B FP16 LLM in latency, memory use, and energy consumption.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

Token count is a key determinant in the development of LLMs. To evaluate token-level scaling for \text{BitNet b1.58}, we trained this model on 2T tokens, following the training data methodology employed for StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, the leading open-source 3B model. Both \text{BitNet b1.58} and StableLM-3B were assessed using a benchmark suite comprised of Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}. Table~\ref{tab:2t} presents the reported zero-shot accuracy; for tasks quantified by accuracy and normalized accuracy, their mean is used. The reported performance of StableLM 3B at 2T tokens is sourced directly from its original technical report. Our evaluation demonstrates that \text{BitNet b1.58} delivers consistently higher results across all benchmark tasks, providing evidence that 1.58-bit LLMs exhibit strong generalization as well.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architectures have emerged as an efficient and scalable option for large language models, primarily by reducing the overall computational FLOPs required. However, their practical scalability has been constrained by high memory demands and the overhead incurred through inter-device communication. Adopting 1.58-bit LLMs has the potential to alleviate these issues. By lowering the memory footprint, fewer hardware units are necessary to host MoE models. In addition, the reduced size of activations helps minimize network communication costs during activation transfer. Ideally, this could enable entire models to reside on a single processing chip, thereby removing such overheads altogether.

\textbf{Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs}

Efficient handling of long sequences has become increasingly essential for modern LLM applications. A persistent obstacle in long-sequence inference is the extensive memory consumption related to key-value (KV) caches. \text{BitNet b1.58} marks a significant advance by compressing activations from 16 bits to 8 bits, effectively doubling the maximum sequence length manageable with fixed resources. For 1.58-bit LLMs, activations could be compressed even further—to 4 bits or less—without loss of information, a direction we plan to investigate in future research.

\textbf{LLMs on Edge and Mobile}

Deploying 1.58-bit LLMs offers significant improvements for running language models on edge and mobile hardware, where constraints in both memory and processing power often limit model size and effectiveness. Due to their substantially decreased memory and energy needs, 1.58-bit LLMs can be more readily deployed on such resource-constrained platforms, unlocking a host of applications that previously would have been impractical. This paves the way for more sophisticated uses of LLMs in portable contexts. Additionally, since 1.58-bit LLMs are more compatible with CPUs—which dominate edge and mobile systems—\text{BitNet b1.58} can be executed efficiently on these platforms, offering further performance and capability gains.

\textbf{New Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Emerging efforts, such as those exemplified by Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}}, illustrate the feasibility and advantages of specialized hardware (e.g., LPUs) optimized for LLM workloads. Building on these developments, we propose and encourage the design of dedicated hardware and systems tailored specifically to the needs and computational properties of 1-bit LLMs, in light of the innovative computational paradigm established by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}.<|im_end|>
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: This report details an uncommon presentation of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) occurring simultaneously with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD)—classified as definite BD—complicated further by the onset of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). A male patient in his 60s arrived with symptoms of fever and headache, alongside mucocutaneous signs such as oral aphthae, folliculitis-like eruptions, genital ulcers, and evidence of hyponatraemia. Diagnosis of BD was established on the basis of mucocutaneous findings. Although brain MRI did not reveal abnormalities, cerebrospinal fluid analysis identified aseptic meningitis, providing support for a diagnosis of acute neuro-BD. Additional laboratory testing satisfied the diagnostic criteria for SIADH. Treatment with colchicine alone was effective in resolving the patient’s cutaneous, neurological, and electrolyte abnormalities, obviating the need for corticosteroids or further immunosuppressive therapies. This case highlights a potential link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH, and emphasizes the clinical significance of identifying both neurological and endocrine involvement at the initial presentation of BD.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent, systemic inflammatory condition that is marked by episodic oral and genital ulcerations, uveitis, and dermatological manifestations. Neurological manifestations, collectively termed neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), affect around 10%–20% of individuals with BD, often emerging years after the disease is initially recognized. The acute phase of neuro-BD frequently manifests as meningoencephalitis with parenchymal lesions, particularly impacting the brainstem. While it is uncommon for BD and neuro-BD to be identified simultaneously, such cases do occur. When confronted with concurrent diagnoses, healthcare providers must thoroughly evaluate both the mucocutaneous presentation and neurological findings, which can include headache, behavioral disturbances, psychiatric manifestations, and localized neurological impairments.

The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) represents a frequent etiology of hyponatraemia, commonly arising in the setting of central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, malignancy, or as an adverse effect of specific pharmacotherapies. In light of the proinflammatory milieu associated with acute neuro-BD, patients with this condition could potentially develop SIADH. Although there are documented cases of SIADH in BD patients undergoing cyclophosphamide therapy, the incidence of SIADH directly attributable to CNS inflammation from acute neuro-BD, in the absence of medication triggers, is not well established.

Here, we describe an unusual case involving simultaneous diagnoses of BD and acute neuro-BD, further complicated by the development of SIADH. This case underscores the necessity of considering SIADH in the differential diagnosis of acute neuro-BD, especially when evaluating patients with ambiguous CNS complaints and hyponatraemia.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his sixth decade arrived at the emergency department, reporting three days of fever, headache, general fatigue, diminished appetite, continuous hiccups, and joint pain in the shoulders and ankles. He further mentioned experiencing oral aphthous ulcers.

His past medical history was significant for type 2 diabetes mellitus; however, he was not on any therapeutic regimen, largely due to insufficient understanding of his diagnosis and a lack of adherence to dietary and exercise recommendations. There was no notable family history of BD. The patient drank alcohol occasionally, did not smoke, had neither recently traveled nor had contact with animals or sick individuals. Employed in the metalworking sector, he reported no recent sexual encounters.

Upon evaluation, the patient was conscious but showed signs of tiredness. Recorded vital parameters included a body temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure measuring 135/73 mm Hg, regular heart rate at 119 beats per minute, respiratory rate at 19 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation of 96% while breathing ambient air. Physical assessment identified oral aphthous ulcers and folliculitis-like eruptions on the facial and truncal regions (figure 1A, B and C). Cardiopulmonary and abdominal assessments yielded normal results. Manual muscle strength testing demonstrated intact strength in both upper and lower limbs. There was an absence of peripheral edema, and his clinical volume assessment indicated euvolemia. Consequently, he was hospitalized for further diagnostic workup.

Investigations:

Initial laboratory investigations showed significant hyponatraemia (124 mmol/L), alongside increased levels of creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein (CRP) (180 mg/L; reference range, <3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (70 mm/hour; reference range, <15 mm/hour), while renal function remained within normal limits. The patient exhibited hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and a raised HbA1c of 8.2%, suggestive of suboptimal glycaemic control. Serological tests for hepatitis B and C were negative.

Endocrine assessment demonstrated normal values for thyroid-stimulating hormone (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 (1.25 ng/dL; reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL), and serum cortisol (42 µg/dL; reference, >6 µg/dL). Serum osmolality was reduced (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg), while urine osmolality was markedly elevated (900 mOsm/kg; reference, >300 mOsm/kg), accompanied by a high urinary sodium level (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), indicating a disturbance in water excretion. Despite the presence of hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) was found to be elevated (22.4 pg/mL). Electrocardiogram results were normal, and imaging studies, including chest X-ray and computed tomography of the head, chest, and abdomen, were unremarkable. Collectively, these findings were consistent with a diagnosis of SIADH.

By the third day, the patient’s headache and vertigo had intensified. Despite the absence of neck rigidity or evidence of cranial nerve dysfunction, central nervous system (CNS) inflammation was considered as a possible diagnosis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain did not demonstrate any noteworthy abnormalities in the hypothalamus or other brain areas (figure 2). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) studies showed a mildly increased opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), elevated protein concentration (0.97 g/L), and a slight lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). Microbiological tests on the CSF—including cultures and specific assays for bacterial and mycobacterial organisms, herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcal antigen—were negative. CSF cytological analysis detected no evidence of malignant cells.

Additional diagnostic workup was undertaken to rule out underlying systemic pathologies. Evaluation for sarcoidosis demonstrated normal values for lysozyme (5.1 µg/mL; reference 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (11.4 U/L; reference 7–25). Screening for hematologic malignancy showed an increased level of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) (704 U/mL; reference 122–496 U/mL), whereas testing for human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 antibody was negative.

On the fifth day, the patient developed a painful ulcer on the scrotum (figure 1D). Taken together with the presence of oral aphthae and folliculitis-like skin lesions, these manifestations raised the suspicion of systemic BD. There was no evidence of pathergy on skin testing. Examination by ophthalmology excluded the presence of uveitis. Testing for HLA-B51 was positive.

Differential diagnosis:

Upon initial assessment, the concurrence of fever, headache, general malaise, and hyponatraemia indicated a potential central nervous system (CNS) infection or a systemic inflammatory condition. Viral meningoencephalitis, especially due to HSV or VZV, was suspected first; nevertheless, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis was negative for viral antigens and antibodies, thereby ruling out these viral etiologies. Consideration was also given to bacterial meningitis, but this diagnosis was discounted due to the absence of neutrophilic predominance, the presence of only mild lymphocytic pleocytosis, and negative CSF cultures. Tuberculous meningitis was similarly excluded based on negative acid-fast staining and tuberculosis DNA assays.

Given the neurologic symptoms, a primary CNS malignancy was also contemplated. However, both brain MRI and CSF cytology did not reveal any pathological abnormalities or malignant cells. Although the serum sIL-2R was slightly increased, this isolated result was not sufficient to diagnose CNS lymphoma.

The possibility of autoimmune disorders was explored; these were dismissed in light of the lack of hallmark systemic features and negative results on screening autoantibody tests. Neurosarcoidosis remained in the differential, considering that MRI may appear normal early on, yet subsequent laboratory findings argued against this diagnosis. The marginally elevated sIL-2R was interpreted as non-specific.

A definitive diagnosis of BD was made according to clinical manifestations, including fever and fatigue, oral aphthae (two points), genital aphthosis (two points), and a rash resembling folliculitis (one point). Utilizing the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease, the patient accumulated a total of five points (≥4 signifying a confirmed diagnosis). Notably, genital aphthosis is recognized as a highly specific feature of BD, further substantiating this diagnosis. Following systematic exclusion of infectious, neoplastic, and autoimmune etiologies, acute neuro-BD was diagnosed on the basis of CNS symptoms in association with characteristic mucocutaneous findings.

Treatment:

Upon admission (day 1), clinicians suspected an underlying inflammatory disorder, although its precise cause was not immediately identified. Empiric cefepime therapy was commenced following the collection of blood cultures, aimed at addressing a possible bacterial infection even though no clear infectious site was evident.

By day 3, the patient's headache and vertigo had intensified, raising concerns for central nervous system inflammation or infection. As a precaution, acyclovir was introduced, but subsequently discontinued when diagnostic evaluations excluded HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On day 8, following the confirmation of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, colchicine treatment was initiated. Management of oral aphthous ulcers involved the application of topical corticosteroid ointment, while genital and skin lesions were treated with silver sulfadiazine cream. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) was approached with conservative measures, including fluid intake restriction (<800 mL/day), daily serum sodium assessments, and careful avoidance of rapid sodium correction. There was no necessity for hypertonic saline administration or the use of vasopressin receptor antagonists.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient experienced resolution of fever and improvement in appetite the day following the initiation of colchicine therapy. Over the next 2 weeks, symptoms such as vertigo, general malaise, hiccups, and mucocutaneous lesions showed progressive amelioration. By the 16th day, his serum sodium concentration had returned to a normal value of 136 mmol/L, and ADH levels had declined to 1.8 pg/mL. Myogenic enzyme concentrations also normalized.

Notably, systemic corticosteroids and additional immunosuppressive agents were not administered throughout the course of treatment. The patient was discharged after a hospitalization period of 1 month, during which the acute phase was resolved, hyponatraemia was closely observed and addressed, and rehabilitation addressed declines in physical capability. Colchicine treatment was sustained for about 4 years, with no relapses of BD or neurological symptoms recorded during that period. Once BD was stabilized, biguanide therapy commenced, resulting in maintained satisfactory glycaemic control.

Discussion:

In this instance, systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were identified concurrently, a particularly uncommon clinical occurrence. The case further illustrated that acute neuro-BD may be accompanied by SIADH. The alleviation of mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological deficits, and hyponatraemia following colchicine monotherapy indicates a likely direct relationship among BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. Thus, clinicians should entertain the possibility of acute neuro-BD in BD patients who exhibit fever or headache in association with hyponatraemia.

This report is significant for documenting the concurrent onset of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, evidenced by both mucocutaneous involvement and central nervous system manifestations. Conventionally, serious organ involvement such as CNS pathology emerges roughly four years after the initial BD diagnosis, with neurological symptoms at initial presentation observed in less than 5% of cases. Additionally, only about 10% of individuals experience headaches attributable directly to neuro-BD, making early identification especially difficult in this scenario. Acute neuro-BD most frequently presents as a self-limited meningoencephalitic process, occasionally accompanied by focal neurological impairments. In this patient, MRI did not disclose pathognomonic changes in standard BD-associated regions, such as the hypothalamus. Acute neuro-BD may manifest as aseptic meningitis without visible parenchymal abnormalities, and unremarkable brain imaging—especially early in the clinical course—cannot reliably exclude this diagnosis. The absence of definitive radiological features added further diagnostic complexity. Testing for HLA-B51 was conducted but did not assist in confirmation, reflecting the international diagnostic standards for BD, which prioritize clinical presentation over genetic testing. Overall, this case underscores the need to consider neuro-BD in individuals with mucocutaneous disease who develop vague neurological symptoms.

During the early stages of forming the differential diagnosis, we gave primary consideration to infection as the source of CNS inflammation, prompted by the concurrence of unexplained fever, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia. Nonetheless, our investigations did not detect any particular infectious agent. Alternative etiologies for CNS inflammation were also explored, such as connective tissue disorders and neoplastic conditions, including sarcoidosis and haematological malignancies. Consequently, we conducted an extensive initial screening by measuring autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE, and sIL-2R. These laboratory assessments were implemented selectively, as part of an exclusionary process rather than out of high clinical suspicion. Ultimately, neither clinical evaluation, imaging, nor CSF analysis yielded findings to corroborate these conditions, and these ancillary investigations offered little toward establishing the diagnosis. Given the limited sensitivity of ACE for sarcoidosis, and considering that while sIL-2R can be helpful in suspected malignant lymphoma, its mild elevation is not specific and may simply indicate general inflammatory activity. Notably, the lack of genital ulcers in the early presentation complicated the identification of BD, necessitating a comprehensive differential. This experience underscores the necessity for judicious use of diagnostic testing and reiterates that investigations should be reserved for cases with appropriate clinical indications, with results interpreted prudently.

While instances of drug-induced SIADH have been described in individuals with BD who are treated with agents such as cyclophosphamide, the connection between acute neuro-BD and SIADH remains inadequately elucidated. Neuro-BD involves inflammation within the CNS, a process that could potentially lead to abnormal regulation of ADH secretion. Previous research has demonstrated that interleukin-6 (IL-6), a proinflammatory cytokine commonly elevated in neuroinflammatory conditions, is linked to increased ADH secretion. In the context of BD, dysregulated monocyte activity results in spontaneous production of IL-6, and heightened IL-6 concentrations have been observed in the CSF of those experiencing acute neuro-BD episodes. Collectively, these observations imply that IL-6–driven inflammation may play a role in the development of SIADH in this context. Although IL-6 was not quantified in either serum or CSF for the current case, the significantly increased serum CRP may serve as an indirect indicator of an IL-6–dependent inflammatory process. Despite SIADH being known to arise in association with multiple conditions—including CNS inflammation, pulmonary disease, neoplasia, and use of certain drugs—the evidence from this case does not establish a direct causative association between SIADH and acute neuro-BD. The temporal relationship observed here might represent a general inflammatory reaction within the CNS rather than a mechanism specific to neuro-BD.

This case further highlights the risks associated with hyponatraemia due to SIADH in patients with acute neuro-BD. Earlier literature has indicated that persistent hiccups can act as a significant clinical indicator of severe hyponatraemia arising from SIADH secondary to central nervous system inflammation, such as in cases of meningitis. Additionally, during our initial assessment for fever, arthralgia, and generalized fatigue—which could signify either inflammatory or metabolic muscle injury—we evaluated CK levels. This assessment revealed rhabdomyolysis, a recognized yet frequently neglected complication of severe hyponatraemia that is not commonly screened for. Although these clinical features are documented consequences of marked hyponatraemia, they often go underrecognized in practice. It is essential for clinicians to recognize that symptoms appearing to be unrelated, like hiccups or rhabdomyolysis, might indicate significant electrolyte imbalances, especially amidst neuroinflammatory disorders.
------
===== NEW BATCH 8 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Corticosteroids typically represent the first-line therapy for acute neuro-BD, yielding favorable responses in most cases. Nevertheless, spontaneous improvement has occasionally been documented, especially in patients exhibiting only meningoencephalitis-like features. In the case discussed here, treatment with colchicine alone resulted in amelioration of both mucocutaneous and neurological manifestations, as well as correction of hyponatraemia. Colchicine’s anti-inflammatory properties derive from its ability to block neutrophil chemotaxis and activation, alongside the inhibition of cytokine release such as IL-1β and IL-6. While colchicine is commonly administered for mucocutaneous symptoms in BD, comprehensive reviews have indicated that it does not effectively manage acute neuro-BD; immunosuppressive medications are typically required for satisfactory disease regulation. Reported cases show colchicine has predominantly been employed as an adjunct to corticosteroids or additional immunosuppressants, rather than as a stand-alone therapy. Although spontaneous remission in this case cannot be definitively ruled out, the observations here raise the possibility that colchicine may serve as a viable option for treating acute neuro-BD and associated conditions like SIADH, especially in situations where corticosteroids are inappropriate or contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We presented an uncommon instance where BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed simultaneously, with SIADH arising as a complication of neuro-BD. This report underscores that SIADH can manifest secondary to acute neuro-BD, emphasizing the necessity for clinicians to recognize this possible link. Administration of colchicine as a single agent resulted in swift resolution of both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as correction of hyponatraemia, indicating colchicine's potential utility as an initial treatment option for neuro-BD. For BD patients exhibiting general CNS complaints—such as headache and fever—accompanied by hyponatraemia, it is crucial for healthcare professionals to consider acute neuro-BD, particularly when SIADH is also present.<|im_end|><|im_end|> in favour of his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. A group of 70 influential Republicans, in a letter to the party, recently asked it to stop spending money on Trump’s campaign. “We believe that Donald Trump’s divisiveness, recklessness, incompetence and record-breaking unpopularity risk turning this election into a Democratic landslide”.

There is demand by some senior Republican Party members for Trump to stand down but he has declared that he is in no mood to do so. Though Trump still harbours the dream of occupying the White House, the game appears to be over for him.

The final outcome would be announced after the election in the first week of November, but it is now being assumed that Hillary would emerge as the winner. Some close observers are willing to bet that she would win with a historic margin but the very fact that she would be the first woman to occupy the post in US history would be a landmark in itself. Ironically, several developing and even backward countries like India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Bangladesh have already achieved the distinction of women heading the government.

Diplomats and foreign affairs experts have been studying the implications of her victory from India’s point of view. Unlike Trump, she is well known in India and has a good understanding and long association with the country. She is familiar with the leadership of the country and has paid several visits in different capacities over the last two decades. Her first visit to the country dates back to 1994 when she was part of a delegation of senators on a tour of South Asia. Three years later she accompanied her daughter to attend the funeral of Mother (now Saint) Teresa.

As secretary of state in the first Barack Obama administration (2009-13), she remained closely associated with Indo-American relations and stood by India on several occasions, especially on the subject of terrorism. She also worked for closer cooperation between the two countries particularly in the spheres of defence and space as well as transfer of high technology.

She was also instrumental in launching a ministerial level strategic dialogue in 2009 focusing on strategic cooperation, energy and climate change, education and development, economy, trade and agriculture, science and technology and health and innovation.

She is known for taking an unequivocal stand against terrorism and had been delivering tough messages to Pakistan to end activities of terrorists operating from that country. She had, as a symbolic gesture, stayed at the Taj Mahal Hotel in Mumbai, the site of the 2008 terrorist attack, to drive home a point.

Unlike Trump, she is well known in India and has a good understanding and long association with the country. She is also familiar with our leadership and has paid several visits

She is equally popular in the Indo-American community based in the US. The community has completely backed her in the election campaign and has contributed generously to her campaign funds. She had also been attending various functions organised by the community. The members of the community, to their credit, have also been instrumental in prompting her to take a stand in favour of India at various fora.

But a section of diplomats believe that Hillary Clinton would only be a bad choice from worse. If Trump were to win the election, it was feared that his hardline approach could have led to consolidation of the Muslim world which would have provided further fillip to the terrorist organisations like the IS and Lashkar-e-Taiba. The worst affected could have been countries like India. His tirade against immigrants and loss of IT business to India could have also gone against the interests of India.

Unlike the untested Trump, Hillary Clinton is well known in India and her views are well known to the political establishment and diplomats. She has remained First Lady for eight years, US senator for another eight and then Secretary of State for four years.

Just as there is unlikely to be a political and diplomatic impact after the change of US presidency, economists are of the view that trade relations between the two countries are not likely to be affected. They say that the Indian economy is doing well and expected to remain the fastest growing economy in the next few years. Moreover it is not dependent heavily on the US and has a huge potential for further growth.

But it is also a fact that Republican Presidents have been more inclined towards India. They refer to the fact that the historic India-US nuclear deal was signed when Republican George Bush was the president even as his predecessors from Democratic Party had failed to bring the two countries closer. Even during the Obama regime, despite the bonhomie between him and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there has been little progress on the ground.

The choice of her running mate Tim Kaine for the post of Vice President has also sounded alarm bells as diplomats are of the view that he is not inclined favourably towards India. They also claim that her likely Chief of Staff could be Huma Abedin, a close aide of Hillary Clinton who is a Pakistani-American, and not known to be friendly towards India.

Kaine, a member of the Senate India caucus which was co-founded by Hillary Clinton in 2004, had recently spoken of the “strategic importance” of US-India relationship growing every year but had also pointed out that “Some members of the Indian-American community in Virginia, many of whom are Sikh, have expressed concerns about issues of religious tolerance and liberty in India. I hope that Prime Minister Modi continues efforts to better protect the inalienable rights afforded to all people, just as we fight against expressions of religious intolerance in our own political climate”.

In the ultimate analysis, however, Hillary Clinton would be a better choice as far as India is concerned, or for that matter, the world is concerned. From what anyone can make from Trump’s campaign he is unpredictable and unreliable. Hillary, on the other hand, is level headed and experienced and is likely to continue her country’s current policies.

Having remained so closely associated with the administration of the US and its relations with different countries, it understands the dynamics of the changing scenario. India is becoming increasingly important for the US in the region. New Delhi is well aware that to keep China, along with its ally Pakistan, in check, the US has to strengthen association with India. The Obama administration had made some significant strategic moves in the recent past, including an agreement on the use of Indian bases, and the new administration will have little choice but to build on the relationship.

Also, as was the case with her husband, former President Bill Clinton, she is unlikely to get her country directly involved in conflict situations. It would be better for all concerned if the US gives up its self-assumed responsibility of policing the world — and Hillary can be expected to prefer giving a healing touch rather than provoke animosity.

[email protected]<|endoftext|>at, batch -- execute commands at a later time


at [ -m ] [ -f file ] [ -q letter ] time [ date ] [ increment ]

at [ -m ] [ -f file ] [ -q letter ] -t [[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm.[SS]

at -r job-id ...

at -l [ job-id ... ]

at -l -q letter



The at and batch commands both accept one or more commands from the standard input to be executed at a later time. at and batch differ in the way the set of commands, or job, is scheduled: at allows you to specify a time when the job should be executed, while batch executes the job when the system load level permits. After a job is queued with either command, the program writes a job identifier (made up of alphanumeric characters plus the period), along with the time the job will execute, to standard error.

at takes the following arguments:

The time can be specified as 1, 2, or 4 digits. One- and two- digit numbers are taken to be hours, four digits to be hours and minutes. The time can alternately be specified as two numbers separated by a colon, meaning hour:minute. A suffix am or pm can be appended; otherwise a 24-hour clock time is understood. The suffix utc can be used to indicate Greenwich Mean Time (GMT). The special names noon, midnight, and now are also recognized.

An optional date can be specified as either a month name followed by a day number (and an optional year number preceded by a comma) or a day of the week (spelt in full or abbreviated to three characters). Two special ``days,'' today and tomorrow, are recognized. If no date is given, today is assumed if the given hour is greater than the current hour and tomorrow is assumed if it is less. If the given month is less than the current month (and no year is given), next year is assumed.

The time and optional date arguments can be modified with an increment argument of the form +n units, where n is an integer and units is one of the following: minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, or years. The singular form is also accepted, and +1 unit can also be written next unit. Thus, legitimate commands include:

at 0815am Jan 24, 1995
at 0815am Jan 24
at 8:15am Jan 24
at now + 1 day
at 5 pm Friday next week

-r job-id ...
Removes the specified job or jobs previously scheduled by the at or batch command. job-id is a job identifier returned by at or batch. Unless you are root, you can only remove your own jobs.

-l [ job-id ... ]
Lists schedule times of specified jobs. If no job-ids are specified, lists all jobs currently scheduled for the invoking user. Unless you are root, you can only list your own jobs.

-q letter
Places the specified job in a queue denoted by letter, where letter is any lowercase letter from ``a'' to ``z''. The queue letter is appended to the job identifier. The following letters have special significance:

at queue

batch queue

cron queue

For more information on the use of different queues, see the queuedefs(F) manual page.

Mail is sent to the invoking user even if the at job produces no output.

If -m is not used, the at job's standard output and standard error are mailed to the user, unless explicitly redirected.

-f file
Specifies the pathname of a file to use for the source of the at job (instead of stdin).

Alternative format for specifying time in 2 digit codes where:







batch takes no arguments; it submits a job for immediate execution at lower priority than an ordinary at job.

at and batch jobs are executed using sh(C). Standard output and standard error output are mailed to the user unless they are redirected elsewhere. The shell environment variables, current directory, umask, and ulimit are retained when the commands are executed. Open file descriptors, traps, and priorities are lost.

The shell environment for both at and batch can be defined in the file /usr/lib/cron/.proto. If the file /usr/lib/cron/.proto.a exists, at takes its environment from this file instead. If the file /usr/lib/cron/.proto.b exists, batch takes its environment from this file instead.

Users are permitted to use at and batch if their usernames (logins) appear in the file /usr/lib/cron/at.allow. If that file does not exist, the file /usr/lib/cron/at.deny is checked to determine if a given user should be denied access to at and batch. If neither file exists, only root is allowed to submit a job. If only the at.deny file exists, and it is empty, global usage is permitted. The allow/deny files consist of one username per line.

If the system is installed with C2 security (this is the default, unless the system administrator has relaxed the security), the user will also need the chmodsuid kernel privilege. For more information about system security and kernel privileges, see ``Using a secure system'' in the Operating System User's Guide and ``Maintaining system security'' in the System Administration Guide.

Exit values

at and batch return 0 on successful completion, or 1 if an error occurs.


Complains about syntax errors and times out of range.


The simplest way to use at is to place a series of commands in a file, one per line, and execute these commands at a specified time with the following command:

at time < file

The following sequence can be used at a terminal to format the file infile using the nroff text formatter, and place the output in the file outfile.

nroff infile > outfile

The next example demonstrates redirecting standard error to a pipe (|), which is useful in a shell procedure. The file infile is formatted and the output placed in outfile, with any errors generated being mailed to user (output redirection is covered on the sh(C) manual page).

batch <<!
nroff infile2 > &1 > outfile | mail user

To have a job reschedule itself, invoke at from within the job. For example, if you want shellfile to run every Thursday, executing a series of commands and then rescheduling itself for the next Thursday, you can include code similar to the following within shellfile:

echo "sh shellfile" | at 1900 thursday next week


A maximum limit of 500 outstanding at jobs is imposed.

The time taken to submit an at job increases exponentially with the number of job files in the /usr/spool/cron/atjobs spool area.


The behavior of these commands depend on the ``cron'' authorization in authorize(F). See subsystem(M) for details.


main cron directory

list of allowed users

list of denied users

scheduling information

spool area

at and batch environment information

at shell environment

batch shell environment

See also

cron(C), kill(C), mail(C), nice(C), ps(C), queuedefs(F), sh(C)

Standards conformance

at and batch are conformant with:

AT&T SVID Issue 2;

© 2003 Caldera International, Inc. All rights reserved.
SCO OpenServer Release 5.0.7 -- 11 February 2003<|endoftext|>Inner to Outer Space: Studying Biological Changes with Plants on Rockets


By Nicole Quenelle
NASA’s Armstrong Flight Research Center



Soon, co-principal investigators Robert Ferl and Anna-Lisa Paul will launch their “space plants”—Arabidopsis thaliana to be exact—along with advanced cameras and sensors for imaging them on Blue Origin’s New Shepard rocket. The flight test, facilitated by NASA’s Flight Opportunities  program, is the latest suborbital experiment to help the investigators further examine the cornerstone questions of two decades of biological research.

“About half of the genes in our bodies encode the exact same proteins in plants,” explained Paul. “And that’s very exciting because it means that as we look at how plants behave in the absence of gravity, we can translate many of those basic biological processes to humans.”

With NASA’s help, researchers Robert Ferl (left) and Anna-Lisa Paul (right) have leveraged several parabolic flights to test the thermal imaging hardware that enables precise views of plants, looking for clues on the molecular level to explain gene behavior during different phases of microgravity. (Credits: University of Florida)

And it turns out that plants behave quite differently in space compared to on the ground. In particular, plant growth is distinctly unique, with roots branching in skewed or random patterns rather than extending down from the shoots like they typically do on Earth.

Ferl and Paul began studying how plants respond to microgravity on the molecular level with space shuttle experiments in the late ‘90s, the findings from which they later applied to longer term observations with nine experiments on the International Space Station.

“What we learned from those early experiments was certain notions of how plants adapt to space. And then we compared that with how they behave on the ground,” said Ferl. “That’s monumental, but it doesn’t tell us what happens in the transition. Essentially nowhere in the history of space biology have scientists had the opportunity to fully examine the transition from 1 to 0 and back.”

Enter parabolic flights, many of which were facilitated by NASA, where Ferl and Paul were able to start examining that transition during 30-second periods of microgravity.

“Those flights gave us the first hints that plant adaptation happens very rapidly,” said Paul. “We could get small glimpses into the transition using fluorescent imaging to study different types of molecule signaling and look at what genes are turned off, what genes are turned on and when that happens.”

NASA researcher Gino Carro prepares a prototype of NASA’s Orbital Syngas Commodity Augmentation Reactor (OSCAR) for a drop tower 2.2 second microgravity test at NASA’s Glenn Research Center in November 2018. (Credits: NASA)

Ferl and Paul have now adapted their fluorescent imaging hardware to suborbital vehicles, where they continue studying the transition phase—the new frontier of their work. Of particular interest is calcium signaling, which is known to flip the switch on or off for specific genes in response to external stimuli, such as wind blowing across the leaves, the hungry bite of a caterpillar, or something more dramatic—like a change in gravity.

“Our very first spaceflight experiment indicated that being in space changes some aspects of calcium signaling,” explained Ferl. “And calcium signaling in particular is very similar between plants and animals, so we want to better understand that role in response to transitions in gravity.”

Suborbital flights are now enabling imaging of molecular changes during gravity transitions in real time—and with longer durations of microgravity than possible on parabolic flights. A suborbital flight on Virgin Galactic’s SpaceShipTwo in December 2018 and a launch on New Shepard in January 2019 have hinted at some surprising findings.

Blue Origin’s New Shepard on the launch pad.
------
 present blog every day, ha-ha.

In a group of 209 babies born to women taking Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme inhibitor drugs (ACE inhibitors) in the early stages of pregnancy, a recent study reported that 18 or 7.1% of the infants were born with serious birth defects.

ACE inhibitors are a class of drugs used to treat high blood pressure. They work mainly by relaxing blood vessels and they are often prescribed to people with diabetes. ACE inhibitors include benazepril, captopril, enalapril, fosinopril, lisinopril, moexipril, quinapril, ramipril and trandolapril (these are international names, brand names mostly differ among countries).

Use of ACE inhibitors is contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy because of their association with increased risk of fetopathy and renal side effects in the newborn. In contrast, they are not contraindicated in the first trimester of pregnancy — albeit animal reproduction studies have shown an adverse effect on the fetus — because there are no adequate and well-controlled studies in humans and potential benefits may warrant use of the drug in pregnant women despite potential risks, as indicated in drug information sheets (in Europe and USA at least).

The recent study determined that infants exposed to ACE inhibitors in first trimester were about 4 times more likely to suffer cardiovascular problems and 5 times more likely to have central nervous system malformations when compared to infants exposed to other medications or no antihypertensive drugs at all. One-third of the birth defects involved the heart, one-quarter the limbs or the face, and one-tenth involved the brain or spinal cord. Some defects, such as the heart problems, might be curable with surgery or other treatment, but others resulted in retardation or permanent disability.

As highlighted in an accompanying editorial, this study demonstrated the risks of taking known and unknown drugs before and during pregnancy. Women who are considering getting pregnant should talk to their doctor before taking any medications, since "birth defects caused by teratogenic treatments are preventable" the editorial said. "A woman who learns she is pregnant while taking an ACE inhibitor should immediately be switched to another antihypertensive agent to minimize the risk of fetopathy [...]. Detailed fetal ultrasonography and echocardiography at about 18 weeks of gestation should be offered to women who have taken such drugs in the first trimester of pregnancy."

Indeed. And also, one cannot but wonder: "what did pharmaceutical companies selling ACE inhibitors already know but did not say?"

Related Posts Widget for Blogs by LinkWithin


Timeless Music
The Magic Flute
by W. A. Mozart

Timeless Reading
Les Essais
by Michel de Montaigne<|endoftext|>Saturday, December 24, 2011

Pictures from Ristna, Hiiumaa

Ristna is the west point of Hiiumaa. If waves are large somewhere in Estonia, this is here - it is an opened Baltic Sea and it gets deep quite quickly.

The weather was unpredictable this weekend. It could snow inland (+1), it could rain here and there, it could also be sunny a bit. However it was quite warm (+5C) in Ristna Tip, and it was raining and sunny at the same time. Rainbow in a horizon - not something anyone would expect in winter in this latitude of earth.

The waves could easily reach 2 meters high - a surfer's paradise.

The multi-directional low horizon light made the  color of the water admirable, so unusual to the nature of the Baltic Sea.

It is the sky drama that often  catches out attention - with no megapixel limit and real world, truly a 5D cinema indeed.

No comments:<|endoftext|>Friday, 30 January 2015

Bad news for language learners? Not really...

Ever heard any of these: "Learn a language in hours, not years", "Learn a language in 200 hours", "How to learn a language in 90 days",...? We have. And we don't believe a bit of all this. As many popular jokes go, this is because we have two pieces of news for you: a bad one and a good one. Let me start with the bad one.

Thursday, 1 January 2015

New Year around the world

Happy New 2015! May you all find new challenges and enjoy the ride.

The Western Festive Season is so popular around the world that many people tend to see it as the day when the world clock ticks one year ahead. However, to many people around the world it is not any more special than the days before or after it. This is because they use different calendars and did not even enter the Second Millennium a bit more than dozen years ago.<|endoftext|>Uterine Fibroids | - Blog Hanz -
Breaking News

Uterine Fibroids


# Uterine fibroids are benign smooth muscle tumors known as leiomyoma.
# About 20% of women develop uterine fibroids by age 40.
# They develop within the wall of the uterus as nodules of smooth muscle cells and fibrous connective tissue. The uterus becomes large and irregular in shape. It is an extremely common disease. There can be one or many fibroid tumors on the uterus.
# It is the second most common indication for major surgery in women after cesarean section.
# It can develop as a single nodule or many fibroid tumors that may range in size from 1 mm to more than 20 cm (8 inches) in diameter. They can grow within the uterine wall and may protrude toward the outer uterine surface and the pelvic cavity.


# The etiology is not clear. Most likely, they develop from uterine smooth muscle cells.


# Many women do not have any symptoms.
# Heavy, prolonged, unusual monthly menstrual bleeding is the most common symptom.
# An increase in menstrual cramps and pelvic pain
# Pain in the back, flank, or legs, as the fibroids press on nerves that supply the pelvis and legs
# Pain during sexual intercourse
# Pressure on the urinary system, increased frequency of urination
# Pressure on the bowel, leading to constipation and bloating
# Abnormally enlarged (distended) abdomen


# Pelvic exam
# Ultrasound
# If necessary, a hysteroscopy (in which a camera is used to look into the uterus) or hysterography (in which a dye is injected into the uterus and x-rays are taken) can be done.

Similar conditions

# Pregnancy
# Leiomyosarcoma
# Ovarian cancer
# Adenomyosis


# No treatment is necessary, just follow-up every 6 months, if the woman does not have symptoms.
# If the fibroid's blood supply is cut off, then the woman will have a lot of pain. This is an emergency and needs immediate medical attention.
# If bleeding is heavy, medroxyprogesterone or estrogen can help decrease the bleeding.
# If the woman is severely anemic (low blood count), this needs to be treated before any surgery is attempted. Surgical removal of the fibroid is required if the uterus is getting bigger very quickly, if it is causing symptoms, or bleeding is excessive.
# The smaller the fibroids, the less risky the surgery. Therefore, when possible, women are given medicines such as Leuprolide or Nafarelin for 2 to 3 months before surgery to shrink the fibroids.
# Surgery to remove either the individual fibroids or the entire uterus is the main treatment.
# If a woman desires pregnancy, the fibroids can be surgically removed and the uterus is left intact.
# If a woman does not desire pregnancy, the entire uterus is removed. This can be done through the stomach (abdominal hysterectomy), through the vagina (vaginal hysterectomy), or by laparoscopy-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (a camera-assisted surgery).
# Women can still become pregnant if the uterus is left in place, but they may have to have a C-section.



No comments:

Post a Comment


Powered by Blogger.<|endoftext|>Sunday soup!!

Sunday today and it is time for our soup.We had a  chat with the girls about the importance of eating seasonal vegetables and fruits.They retain more nutrients than their counterparts making them the better choice for your health. Other benefits of eating seasonally : Supports local farmers who choose to farm sustainably and preserves the environment.

We enjoyed a creamy  leek soup and olive oil drizzled  croutons  !!

Homemade whole wheat bread by Eva D!!

There is one food that definitely unites most of the civilizations of the world: bread.Throughout recorded history  it has been a prominent food in large parts of the world and is one of the oldest man-made foods, having been of significant importance to  households and often the only food parents could provide to their children in times of despair.

The carbohydrates which are rich provide energy and nourishment just to face the day, they also contain proteins, salts and vitamins essential for the proper functioning of the body.

And what better than homemade whole wheat bread…New Portena bakes!!


Welcome to New Portena Linda!!!

A very warm welcome to Linda who comes from China and joined the 9th grade!!Our aim is to ensure that you, and all our students, have access to the best possible opportunities and experiences during your time in CDL, so that you can reach your full potential and are better prepared for the future.


House assembly : Building positive friendships

A very important topic was brought up during our house assembly which is also a part of our wellbeing programme this year.

The Role of Positive Friendships in Youth Development

Adolescence is a period of rapid change —physically, emotionally, and socially—and relationships with friends play an important role in the lives of adolescents as they become increasingly independent , develop their own identity, and grapple with self-esteem.Positive friendships provide youth with companionship, support, and a sense of belonging. They can encourage or reinforce healthy behaviors, and evidence suggests that positive friendships in adolescence can lay the groundwork for successful adult relationships, including romantic relationships.

And at the end each of us had to pick a heart-shaped card with an attribute written on it and hand it to the person we think possesses this quality..a lot of smiles and good vibes from this evening for all of us!!


Crystal participating in Youth Forum of Switzerland.

Our talented and motivated Crystal will participate  in Youth Forum of Switzerland representing CDL along with 4 more day students,in Zug.

The vision: Connecting changemakers to address the challenges facing our planet.

The Youth Forum Switzerland is committed to:

  • Exploring relevant issues in inclusive, respectful, and constructive ways.
  • Connecting youth and the world’s leading changemakers to inspire innovative solutions to pressing global issues.
  • Empowering youth to become purposeful changemakers.Carbon neutrality and being a zero waste organization.

 The Youth Forum Switzerland will measure its impact through:

  • Assessing youth understanding and engagement with global issues.

  • Curating student initiatives launched through participation in the Youth Forum Switzerland


You are welcome to visit :

January Boarding Assembly!!

This assembly was a little about history and a lot about people who make an impact and stand out for their actions and voice about equality,diversity,freedom of speech,justice and honor.We focused on the importance to see the good things that happen everyday and everywhere rather than surround ourselves and our loved ones with negativity.

Good vibes and positive  attitude  from Albion,Giorgio,Amir and Sofia.Albion and Giorgio demonstrating tenor abilities,Amir accompanied them on the piano and Sofia gave an inspiring speech about the importance of exercise our bodies and souls.

At the end we had the pleasure of welcoming our Ms Cristina on stage where she pointed out that good nutrition is an important part of leading a healthy lifestyle. Combined with physical activity, your eating habits  can help you reach and maintain a healthy life. “let food be your medicine and medicine be your food<|endoftext|>Cat Trees: Tower, Pet Products Cat Furniture

Find the latest Cat Tree & Tower products for your Business, cat tree house, cat scratching tree, wooden cat tree, cat tree tower, sisal cat tree, cat tree tower, cat tree furniture, all from Cat tree factory direct producing and sale.

Showing 1–15 of 43 results

Scroll to top<|endoftext|>Emma's First Time

Emma Watson stepped out of the taxi and made it inside. She was tired from all the interviews and premiers she had been to after her second movie had came out. Things had changed since she was signed to play Hermione Granger in the Harry Potter movies three years ago. She had money now but her parents wouldn't let her spend it, she had developed from the cutesy little girl to now womanly figure. Still only 12 but puberty had hit early and she was pleased with the way her body was changing.

She walked upstairs and undid her dress and stepped out of it. Now just standing in her bra and panties she glanced over to her full-length mirror and smiled. She twisted her body and looked at her now tight but round behind. Her panties slightly moved between her ass cheeks and rode up between her pussy lips. She then turned around and looked at herself again. She put her hands behind her back and unclipped her bra. The bra fell from beneath her breasts and fell to floor. Her breasts so full and pert with nipple no bigger then a dime and nice shade of pink. She hadn't wanted breasts when she was younger but since they had started to grow she had changed her mind. She liked out how they filled her breasts and she enjoyed the attention she was getting from boys at her school

Emma moved back and lay on her bed and removed her panties. Now naked her hand moved down her breasts and tweaked her nipples. She had learnt over the last couple of months to please herself, she found it hard to be with boys because she didn't know if they wanted her because she was a good looking girl or because she was now a movie star. She had these urges to do things and the only way she could quench those urges were to touch herself. She watched as her nipples grew harder and firmer. She licked her fingers and let them wet the top off her nipples. Having them wet she blew on them and it mad her shiver. Her hands now moved down her body to her clit. She moved the hood around from it and let her finger start to explore the clit, she slowly begin to rub it. Emma sighed and her breathing started to get quicker, her other hand joined her other and she moved her fingers around her pussy lips and then slowly inserted two fingers in up to her knuckles. She started to rub harder and started to let her fingers go deeper into her pussy. Emma was getting close, her breathing getting more shallow and she was now moaner more. Her fingers was going deeper and deeper and rubbing her clit faster and faster and with one final movement of her fingers she exploded into orgasm, she raised her body as her pussy juices exploded out of her, her juices landed back down on her and she smiled she had never orgasmed that heavily before.

Emma grabbed some tissues from the side of her bed and wipe her juices from her stomach and inner thigh. Emma moved to the side of her bed and put on her silk rob. She opened her door and walked towards the bathroom, as she got closer she heard the shower going. She called out who's in their, a voice called back it's me I'm taking a shower go away. She recognised the voice of her annoying older brother Jeffrey, she hadn't seen much of him lately because him being usually at boarding school and her been doing the movie. Please Jeff I really need to go to the toilet, hurry up im busting. Hey sis I only just get in so u can either come in while I'm here or you can wait. She opened the door and rushed to toilet and opened the robe and squatted down on the toilet. She looked over at the shower screen, it was all fogged up but she could see her brother's shadow. Thanks Jeff I really needed to go, that's ok Emma I know what it's like when you really need to go. Emma had nearly finished when she looked up and noticed that her brother was now standing sideways in the shower and noticed the shadow showing the outline of his cock. Emma looked away but then was drawn back to it. It looked so big, she could see Jeff washing his cock and rubbing it at the same time, it was at this time she realised that she had started to touch her clit again. Emma stood up flushed and ran out of the bathroom. She raced back to her bedroom and closed the door and lay on the bed.

The thoughts going through Emma mind confused her, why had she touched herself while looking at her brother's cock. Sure he had changed just like her over the last year or two and most girls would think he was cute but he was her brother. She then heard the knock on the door and the door open and in walked Jeff with a towel wrapped around his waist. Emma why did you do that you know when you flush the toilet the water gets hot boiling hot, I nearly burned myself. It was then Emma noticed how the towel was lifting in the groin area. She looked down and realised that he could see one of her breasts. Emma went to move her robe when she noticed Jeff cock was still growing and now its head was peaking out the front of the towel. Emma looked at it fascinated, Jeff also noticed and started to move the towel to hide when he heard his sister say. Jeff could I see that, being a actress none of the boys at school want to do anything and I am scared to do anything with them, please I only want to see it. She looked as Jeff dropped his towel, now fully naked and standing only a couple of feet from his sister. Hey this isn't fair I am naked and you are not, take off that robe. Emma thought about it for a second and then stood up and removed her robe. Now both standing naked they started to look at each other's body. Emma asked does it get hard like that often and are all the boys that size. Jeff said back yeh it gets hard a lot lately mainly when I see a girl who is sexy. Emma blushed and said you think I'm sexy, well honestly until today I didn't think so but now seeing you naked yes you are. Emma blushed again and sat on edge of bed, Jeff moved over to her and sat next to her.
Emma moved her hand until it was on Jeff's thigh, and then slowly moved it to Jeff's now twitching cock, by touching it a small amount of pre-cum oozed out. Emma couldn't believe she was touching her brother's cock but couldn't believe how big and hot it was also. She started to move her hand up and down just liked she did with her own clit but this was a lot bier then her clit ever got. It was scary for her but she was also excited and it wasn't long before cum started spurting out of his cock hole and running down her fingers. She continued to rub and his cock stayed hard. She moved her now cum covered fingers to her mouth and sucked cum off her fingers, it tasted salty but also meaty, she really liked the taste and sucked her other fingers. When she had finished doing that she bent down and started to lick the cum that was till on Jeff's cock, This made Jeff's cock twitch more but he liked the feeling and soon she was sucking his cock, she could get only a couple of inches in her
------
===== NEW BATCH 9 | input_ids shape=(2, 3916) | attention_mask shape=(2, 3916) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Emerging work, notably BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, is ushering in a paradigm shift toward 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). This paper presents a 1-bit LLM variant named \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, in which each individual model parameter takes on a ternary value from the set \{-1, 0, 1\}. This architecture achieves performance parity—both in terms of perplexity and downstream task effectiveness—with full-precision Transformer LLMs (utilizing FP16 or BF16), given the same parameter count and training data, while greatly reducing resource costs in latency, memory usage, throughput, and energy expenditure. More fundamentally, the 1.58-bit LLM establishes a novel scaling principle and methodology for training advanced LLMs that unite high efficiency with superior performance. Additionally, it paves the way for a new computational model and motivates the development of bespoke hardware architectures tuned for 1-bit LLMs.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

The rapid expansion of Large Language Models (LLMs) in recent years has greatly advanced the capabilities and versatility of artificial intelligence in natural language processing. Despite these achievements, the trend toward larger models introduces deployment obstacles and amplifies concerns about financial and environmental sustainability due to escalating energy requirements.

A viable solution has been the adoption of post-training quantization, which allows LLMs to operate with fewer bits during inference~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. By lowering the bitwidth of model weights and activations, this approach leads to substantial savings in both memory and computation. While quantization strategies have evolved from 16 bits to as little as 4 bits~\cite{gptq, awq}, post-training quantization remains fundamentally limited, even if it has seen widespread deployment in industrial LLM systems.

Recent advances in 1-bit model architectures, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, highlight a compelling path toward reducing the computational demands of LLMs without sacrificing efficacy. Standard LLMs employ 16-bit floating-point representations (FP16 or BF16), with matrix multiplication constituting the primary computational bottleneck. This results in significant costs due to intensive floating-point addition and multiplication operations. In contrast, BitNet's matrix multiplications rely exclusively on integer addition, yielding dramatic reductions in energy consumption for LLM workloads. Since many modern hardware platforms are constrained by power limitations, these energy efficiencies often correspond to improvements in processing speed.

Beyond computation, the movement of model parameters from DRAM to on-chip accelerator memory (such as SRAM) is another costly aspect of inference. While increasing SRAM size has been explored to enhance throughput, this solution is often prohibitively expensive relative to DRAM. In contrast to full-precision models, 1-bit LLMs present a much smaller memory footprint with respect to both storage capacity and bandwidth requirements. This lower demand results in shorter and less resource-intensive DRAM-to-SRAM transfers, which accelerates and streamlines inference tasks.

Here, we present a notable 1-bit LLM variant named \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, in which each parameter takes on one of three values from the set \{-1, 0, 1\}. The inclusion of the zero value augments the original BitNet design, raising its precision to 1.58 bits in the binary system. \text{BitNet b1.58} preserves all the key advantages of its 1-bit predecessor: it employs a computation strategy that eliminates nearly all multiplication operations during matrix multiplication and can be extensively optimized. Energy consumption remains comparable to the original BitNet, while it also outperforms FP16 LLM baselines in memory efficiency, throughput, and latency. Moreover, \text{BitNet b1.58} introduces two further benefits. First, its expressiveness is enhanced by explicit feature filtering, enabled through the allowance of zero-valued parameters—this boosts the representational power of 1-bit LLMs. Second, empirical results demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves parity with FP16 models in both perplexity and end-task results, beginning at the 3B parameter scale, when matched for architectural and training configurations (including model size and the amount of training data).

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} is derived from the BitNet architecture, a Transformer variant in which traditional \emph{nn.Linear} layers are substituted with \emph{BitLinear}. This model is trained from the beginning using 1.58-bit precision for weights and 8-bit quantization for activations. In contrast to the initial BitNet design, it implements several updates, which are outlined below.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} To limit weight values to -1, 0, or +1, we employ an \emph{absmean} quantization approach. This method involves normalizing the weight matrix using the mean absolute value of its elements and then rounding each element to its closest value among \{-1, 0, +1\}:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

For activation quantization, we use the same technique as BitNet; however, unlike the original approach, we do not rescale activations into $[0, Q_b]$ prior to applying non-linear transformations. Instead, activations are rescaled for each token to $[-Q_b, Q_b]$, thereby eliminating the necessity for zero-point quantization. This alternative is simpler and more straightforward for practical implementation and system-level tuning, with only minimal impact on model accuracy observed in our evaluations.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

LLaMA~\cite{llama, llama2} has emerged as a standard architectural reference for open-source large language models. To align with the broader open-source ecosystem, \text{BitNet b1.58} incorporates LLaMA-style design choices, including RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, rotary embedding~\cite{rope}, and the removal of all bias terms. Through this design, \text{BitNet b1.58} is readily compatible with commonly used open-source frameworks (such as Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}) with minimal integration work.

\section{Results}

Our study involved benchmarking \text{BitNet b1.58} against our own FP16 implementation of the \text{LLaMA LLM} at multiple model scales. For a consistent evaluation, both models underwent pre-training on the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama}, with exposure to 100 billion tokens. We assessed zero-shot generalization on an assortment of language understanding tasks: ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. Validation perplexities were calculated on both WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4} datasets.

In addition, we systematically compared the GPU memory usage and inference latency between the \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58}. Measurements were performed using the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} framework, which is designed to optimize large language model inference on GPU hardware. For \text{BitNet b1.58}, we also incorporated the 2-bit kernel provided by Ladder~\cite{ladder}. Our primary metric for inference efficiency was the time required to generate each output token.

The perplexity and computational cost for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} are presented in Table~\ref{tab:ppl}. The data indicate that at a 3B parameter count, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves perplexity comparable to that of its full-precision \text{LLaMA LLM} counterpart, all while being 2.71$\times$ faster and requiring only 28\% ($\approx$1/3.55) of the GPU memory. Notably, with a model size of 3.9B parameters, \text{BitNet b1.58} outpaces the 3B \text{LLaMA LLM} by a factor of 2.4 in speed, has 3.32$\times$ lower memory consumption, and delivers significantly enhanced performance.

Detailed zero-shot evaluation results are included in Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot}. The experimental setup adhered to the procedure established by \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}}. Analysis of the findings reveals a shrinking disparity in performance between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} as model scale increases. Critically, from the 3B parameter configuration onwards, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves parity with the full-precision baseline. Echoing the perplexity trends, \text{BitNet b1.58} at 3.9B not only surpasses \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B in end-task accuracy, but does so with reduced latency and memory requirements, establishing \text{BitNet b1.58} as a Pareto superior alternative to leading LLM architectures.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

We extended our analysis to larger model scales, specifically 7B, 13B, and 70B parameters, and assessed the associated computational costs. As presented in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy}, both latency and memory requirements exhibit clear scaling patterns; notably, the performance improvement grows with model size. For instance, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B demonstrates a 4.1-fold speed-up in comparison to the \text{LLaMA LLM} reference model. This acceleration is primarily attributed to the increased computational burden of the \emph{nn.Linear} operation in larger models. Similarly, memory utilization follows an analogous scaling behavior, since the embeddings retain full-precision representation and their share of total memory usage becomes less significant as models increase in size. Both performance metrics—latency and memory—were measured using a 2-bit kernel, suggesting further optimizations remain possible to lower computational cost.

\paragraph{Energy}

We additionally approximated the energy consumption arising from arithmetic operations for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. The evaluation centers on matrix multiplication, as it constitutes the primary contributor to total computation cost in LLMs. Figure~\ref{fig:energy} breaks down the energy composition, revealing that the majority of computations in \text{BitNet b1.58} employ INT8 addition, while \text{LLaMA LLM} largely relies on both FP16 addition and multiplication. Drawing on the energy consumption model provided in~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, it was observed that \text{BitNet b1.58} reduces arithmetic energy usage for matrix multiplication by a factor of 71.4 on 7nm process technology. We also report holistic energy usage for end-to-end inference with 512 token inputs. The findings indicate that the energy efficiency advantage of \text{BitNet b1.58} increases with model scale relative to the FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline. This trend can be ascribed to the rising proportion of computation attributable to \emph{nn.Linear} layers in larger models, while the influence of other components diminishes.

\paragraph{Throughput}

We assessed the throughput of \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} with 70B parameters, running both models on a pair of 80GB A100 GPUs. To accommodate the size of \text{LLaMA LLM} 70B, we employed pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe}. For both models, batch size was scaled up incrementally until the maximum GPU memory was reached, with a fixed sequence length of 512. According to Table~\ref{tab:throughput}, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B is able to handle a batch size up to 11 times larger than that of \text{LLaMA LLM}, yielding an 8.9-fold increase in throughput.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} enables a novel scaling law that connects model performance with inference efficiency.} Drawing on the data presented in Figures~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and~\ref{fig:energy}, we can establish approximate equivalencies between models of different sizes when utilizing 1.58-bit and 16-bit precision:

\begin{itemize}
    \item BitNet b1.58 with 13B parameters demonstrates superior latency, memory consumption, and energy efficiency relative to a 3B FP16 LLM.
    \item BitNet b1.58 at 30B parameters surpasses a 7B FP16 LLM across latency, memory, and energy metrics.
    \item BitNet b1.58 70B outperforms a 13B FP16 LLM with respect to latency, memory footprint, and energy use.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

Token count plays a significant role in the effectiveness of LLMs. To evaluate how well \text{BitNet b1.58} scales with token volume, we trained it on 2T tokens, adhering to the data curation methodology of StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, which currently represents the leading open-source 3B model. We compared both models using a benchmark set comprising Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}. Zero-shot performance was calculated and summarized in Table~\ref{tab:2t}. For metrics reported as both accuracy and normalized accuracy, their mean was used. StableLM 3B’s 2T token results are sourced from its technical documentation. The findings demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} consistently achieves the highest performance across all tasks, providing evidence that 1.58-bit LLMs possess strong generalization ability.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) approaches have demonstrated their efficiency as a scalable solution for deploying LLMs by reducing computational FLOPs. However, their large memory requirements and the associated inter-chip communication overhead still pose significant obstacles to widespread use. Employing 1.58-bit LLMs can mitigate these issues: with a smaller memory demand, fewer devices are needed to host MoE architectures. Additionally, the bandwidth required for inter-device activation transfer is substantially lowered. If it becomes feasible to accommodate the whole MoE model on a single chip, this communication cost could be eliminated entirely.

\textbf{Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs}

As LLMs evolve, supporting longer input sequences has become increasingly important. A key bottleneck is the substantial memory required to store KV caches during inference. \text{BitNet b1.58} offers promising progress by halving activation storage from 16 bits to 8 bits, thereby permitting twice the context length within the same hardware budget. Prospective advancements may allow further, lossless reductions of activation sizes to 4 bits or even less, specifically for 1.58-bit LLMs—an avenue reserved for future exploration.

\textbf{LLMs on Edge and Mobile}

1.58-bit LLMs promise substantial benefits for deploying language models on edge and mobile platforms, which often face stringent constraints in memory and computation. The efficiency gains from the reduced bitwidth enable broader deployment scenarios previously unattainable for LLMs, unlocking new functionalities and use cases for such devices. Furthermore, as these models are inherently more efficient in terms of both memory and power, they align well with CPU-dominant edge and mobile systems. Thus, \text{BitNet b1.58} can be executed efficiently on resource-constrained hardware, further extending the reach of LLM technology.

\textbf{New Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Recent innovations exemplified by Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}} highlight the opportunities in developing purpose-built hardware, such as LPUs, tailored to the specific needs of LLMs. Looking ahead, there is significant potential—and an open call—to engineer new computing architectures and systems designed explicitly for the requirements of 1-bit LLMs, leveraging the computation model introduced with BitNet~\cite{bitnet}.<|im_end|>
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: We describe an uncommon presentation of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) identified simultaneously with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD)—meeting criteria for definite BD—and complicated by syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). A male patient in his 60s arrived with symptoms of fever, headache, and various mucocutaneous lesions, such as oral aphthae, rashes resembling folliculitis, genital ulcers, and laboratory-confirmed hyponatraemia. The mucocutaneous findings prompted a BD diagnosis. Although brain MRI was unremarkable, analysis of cerebrospinal fluid indicated aseptic meningitis, further substantiating acute neuro-BD. Laboratory evaluation satisfied the criteria for SIADH. Treatment with colchicine alone successfully resolved his mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms as well as the hyponatraemia, eliminating the necessity for corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive therapies. This report highlights a potential link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH and emphasizes the need to consider both neurological and endocrine involvement when assessing patients newly diagnosed with BD.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent inflammatory condition affecting multiple organ systems and is typified by the presence of recurrent oral and genital ulcerations, uveitis, and various dermatological manifestations. Neurological manifestations, termed neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), emerge in roughly 10%–20% of individuals with BD, frequently arising years after the initial disease onset. The acute phase of neuro-BD is characteristically associated with meningoencephalitis and parenchymal lesions within the brain, most notably implicating the brainstem region. While it is more common for neurological symptoms to manifest later in the disease course, it is uncommon for both BD and neuro-BD to be diagnosed at the same time. When this simultaneous presentation occurs, it is important for clinicians to systematically evaluate for both cutaneous-mucosal findings and neurological indicators such as headache, behavioural or psychiatric changes, and focal neurological impairments.

The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is a frequent etiology of hyponatraemia and is most often attributed to CNS inflammatory processes, neoplasms, or specific pharmacological agents. The inflammatory milieu characterizing acute neuro-BD may predispose patients to the development of SIADH. While SIADH has occasionally been described in BD patients undergoing treatment with agents like cyclophosphamide, the incidence of SIADH strictly due to acute neuro-BD–related CNS inflammation, absent any medication-induced factors, is yet to be clearly established.

Here, we describe an uncommon clinical scenario involving the concurrent diagnosis of BD and acute neuro-BD, which was further complicated by SIADH. This report underscores the need to consider SIADH as a possible complication in cases of acute neuro-BD, particularly when patients present with hyponatraemia in conjunction with vague or ambiguous neurological symptoms.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his sixties arrived at the emergency department, reporting three days of fever, headache, general malaise, anorexia, ongoing hiccups, and joint pain localized to the shoulders and ankles. Additionally, he noted the presence of oral aphthous ulcers.

The patient's medical background included type 2 diabetes mellitus, though he was not on any therapy for this condition, largely due to limited understanding of his diagnosis and a lack of adherence to recommended lifestyle modifications in diet or exercise. His family medical history revealed no known cases of BD. He consumed alcohol infrequently, was a non-smoker, and denied any recent travel, contact with animals, or exposure to sick individuals. Employment history revealed work in the metalworking sector, and he reported no recent sexual activity.

During assessment, the patient was conscious though exhibited signs of tiredness. His vital measurements included a temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure at 135/73 mm Hg, regular pulse of 119 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute, and an oxygen saturation level of 96% while breathing ambient air. Upon physical inspection, oral aphthae were noted as well as rashes resembling folliculitis present on his face and trunk (figure 1A, B and C). No abnormalities were identified on examination of the cardiopulmonary or abdominal systems. Manual muscle testing showed preserved strength in both upper and lower limbs. There was an absence of peripheral oedema, and clinical evaluation indicated he was euvolemic. Hospital admission was undertaken to enable further diagnostic workup.

Investigations:

The initial laboratory assessment demonstrated significant hyponatraemia, with serum sodium measured at 124 mmol/L. There were increased levels of creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein (180 mg/L; reference value, <3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (70 mm/hour; reference, <15 mm/hour), while renal function remained within normal limits. The patient was additionally found to have hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and an HbA1c of 8.2%, pointing to inadequate control of blood glucose. Markers for hepatitis B and C returned negative.

Further endocrine analysis showed thyroid-stimulating hormone within the normal range (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), normal free T4 (1.25 ng/dL; reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL), and a serum cortisol of 42 µg/dL (reference, >6 µg/dL). Serum osmolality was reduced (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg), while urine osmolality was markedly raised (900 mOsm/kg, reference, >300 mOsm/kg), accompanied by a high urinary sodium concentration (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), reflecting impaired ability to excrete water. In the context of hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) levels were also elevated (22.4 pg/mL). Results from ECG, chest X-ray, and CT scans of the head, chest, and abdomen were all within normal parameters. Collectively, these data were consistent with a diagnosis of SIADH.

By the third day, his headache and vertigo had intensified. Despite the absence of neck rigidity or cranial nerve deficits, central nervous system (CNS) inflammation was considered as a possible cause. MRI of the brain did not demonstrate notable abnormalities affecting the hypothalamus or other regions (figure 2). Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) indicated a slightly elevated opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), increased protein concentration (0.97 g/L), and a mild lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). Cultures and diagnostic tests on CSF for bacterial and mycobacterial organisms, herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcal antigen were all negative. No malignant cells were identified in CSF cytology.

Additional testing was undertaken to assess for underlying systemic illnesses. Investigations for sarcoidosis showed normal lysozyme (5.1 µg/mL; reference 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme levels (11.4 U/L; reference 7–25). A hematological malignancy screen showed an elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) level (704 U/mL; reference, 122–496 U/mL), but human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 antibody was negative.

By day 5, a painful ulcer developed on the scrotum (figure 1D). Together with the presence of oral aphthae and folliculitis-like eruptions, these features pointed towards a systemic manifestation of BD. The patient did not display pinprick hypersensitivity, and ophthalmological evaluation detected no evidence of uveitis. Testing revealed the presence of HLA-B51.

Differential diagnosis:

Upon initial assessment, the concurrence of fever, headache, general malaise, and hyponatraemia raised suspicion for a central nervous system infection or a systemic inflammatory disorder. Viral meningoencephalitis, particularly due to HSV or VZV, was considered the most probable etiology at first. Nonetheless, analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid showed neither viral antigens nor antibodies, which effectively discounted these infections. The possibility of bacterial meningitis was evaluated but dismissed given the lack of neutrophilic predominance, only a slight lymphocytic pleocytosis, and negative CSF cultures. Tuberculous meningitis was similarly ruled out due to negative findings on acid-fast staining and PCR for tuberculosis DNA.

Given the neurological presentation, a primary CNS neoplasm was also considered. However, brain MRI revealed no pathologic abnormalities, and cytological analysis of the CSF did not identify any malignant cells. Although a slight elevation in sIL-2R was noted, this isolated finding was not sufficient to support CNS lymphoma as a diagnosis.

Assessment for autoimmune diseases was undertaken, but these were excluded based on a lack of hallmark systemic features and negative autoantibody screening. Neurosarcoidosis was retained as a potential diagnosis since early disease may present with unremarkable MRI, but later laboratory data made this unlikely. The moderate increase in sIL-2R was interpreted as nonspecific.

Definite BD was diagnosed based on the clinical picture, which included fever and fatigue as well as mucocutaneous findings: oral aphthae (two points), genital aphthosis (two points), and a rash resembling folliculitis (one point). This patient’s cumulative score using the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease was five (where a score of four or higher is diagnostic). Of note, genital aphthosis is considered highly specific for BD, and these features robustly support the diagnosis. Following thorough exclusion of infectious, neoplastic, and autoimmune etiologies, a diagnosis of acute neuro-BD was confirmed, based on CNS manifestations associated with characteristic mucocutaneous symptoms.

Treatment:

Upon admission (day 1), clinicians considered an underlying inflammatory disorder, though its precise cause was indeterminate. Empirical cefepime therapy was commenced after drawing blood cultures to address a possible bacterial infection, even though no clear infectious source was identified.

By day 3, worsening headache and vertigo indicated possible inflammation or infection of the CNS. Acyclovir was initiated empirically but subsequently discontinued when diagnostic testing excluded both HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On day 8, treatment with colchicine was initiated after systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed. Topical corticosteroid ointment was prescribed for oral aphthous ulcers. Silver sulfadiazine cream was used for the management of genital ulcers and cutaneous lesions. Management of SIADH consisted of conservative measures, including fluid restriction (<800 mL/day), rigorous daily monitoring of serum sodium, and ensuring that correction of sodium levels was gradual. Use of hypertonic saline and vasopressin receptor antagonists was not warranted.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient’s fever subsided and his appetite increased within a day of commencing colchicine treatment. Over the next two weeks, his clinical symptoms—including vertigo, general malaise, persistent hiccups, and mucocutaneous manifestations—showed progressive resolution. By day 16, laboratory findings indicated serum sodium had returned to a normal value of 136 mmol/L, while ADH levels had decreased to 1.8 pg/mL. In addition, levels of myogenic enzymes normalized.

Notably, the management of his condition did not involve systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents. Following a one-month period of hospitalization—which facilitated recovery from the acute phase, allowed for meticulous monitoring and correction of hyponatraemia, and included rehabilitation to address physical deconditioning—the patient was discharged. Colchicine was continued for around four years post-discharge, during which there were no observed recurrences of Behçet’s disease or neurologic manifestations. After stabilization of BD, biguanide therapy was introduced, resulting in sustained and effective glycaemic control.

Discussion:

This report presents a rare instance where systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were concurrently diagnosed. It further illustrates that SIADH can develop as a complication of acute neuro-BD. Notably, resolution of mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological deficits, and hyponatraemia was achieved through colchicine monotherapy, suggesting a potential direct link among BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. For BD patients who exhibit fever or headache alongside hyponatraemia, acute neuro-BD should be considered as an underlying etiology.

The uniqueness of this case lies in the concurrent identification of both systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, as evidenced by the coexistence of mucocutaneous lesions and CNS involvement. Usually, severe organ involvement such as CNS pathology tends to occur approximately four years after BD is initially diagnosed, and presenting with neurological features at onset is infrequent—affecting less than 5% of cases. Only about 10% of individuals with BD develop headaches that are specifically attributable to neuro-BD, making initial detection challenging in this scenario. Acute neuro-BD is most often characterized by a self-limited meningoencephalitis, which may or may not be associated with focal neurological signs. In this case, MRI of the brain failed to reveal abnormalities in classic BD-affected regions, such as the hypothalamus. It is possible for acute neuro-BD to manifest as aseptic meningitis in the absence of parenchymal lesions, and a normal brain MRI early in the course of illness does not preclude the diagnosis. The absence of characteristic radiological findings introduced further complexity into the diagnostic evaluation. Although the patient underwent HLA-B51 genotyping, the result was not diagnostic, consistent with international BD diagnostic criteria, which prioritize clinical manifestations over genetic testing. This case underscores the importance of suspecting neuro-BD in patients with mucocutaneous involvement who present with non-specific neurological complaints.

At the outset of the differential diagnosis, our principal concern was infection as the etiology of CNS inflammation, due to the concurrent presence of unexplained fever, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia. Despite these findings, no causative pathogen could be identified. Our diagnostic considerations also encompassed alternative sources of CNS inflammation such as connective tissue disorders and malignancy; thus, sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancies were incorporated into our list of possible diagnoses. In line with this broad initial approach, we opted to screen for autoimmune disease markers, and evaluated serum ACE and sIL-2R levels. The decision to perform these assays was driven more by a process of elimination than by targeted clinical suspicion. Ultimately, neither the clinical presentation, imaging studies, nor CSF analysis offered support for these diagnoses, and the results of these investigations did not play a substantial role in establishing the final diagnosis. Notably, the diagnostic yield of ACE for sarcoidosis is modest, and while sIL-2R can aid in detecting malignant lymphoma, mild increases in sIL-2R are non-specific and may merely indicate an underlying inflammatory process. In this instance, the lack of genital ulcers in the initial phase complicated the suspicion for BD, necessitating consideration of a wide range of possible diagnoses. The process underscored the necessity for judicious use of diagnostic testing, underscoring that investigations should be directed by clinical indications and their interpretation approached prudently.

While SIADH resulting from pharmacological agents, such as cyclophosphamide, has been documented in individuals with BD, the relationship between acute neuro-BD and SIADH is not well elucidated. Neuro-BD features inflammatory activity within the CNS, potentially leading to disruptions in ADH regulation. Previous research has demonstrated that interleukin-6 (IL-6), a proinflammatory cytokine commonly upregulated in neuroinflammatory conditions, is implicated in promoting ADH secretion. In BD, excessive activation of monocytes can trigger spontaneous IL-6 production, with raised IL-6 concentrations identified in the CSF of those experiencing acute neuro-BD. These observations imply that IL-6–driven inflammation could play a role in SIADH under these circumstances. Although IL-6 measurements in the serum or CSF were not obtained in the current case, a significantly elevated serum CRP was observed, potentially indicating an IL-6–dependent inflammatory process. While SIADH can arise in diverse clinical contexts, including CNS inflammation, respiratory illness, malignancy, or medication use, the current evidence does not establish a definitive causal connection between SIADH and acute neuro-BD. The chronology seen in this case may simply indicate a generalized reaction to CNS inflammation, rather than a process unique to the underlying disease.

This case further demonstrates the possible complications arising from hyponatraemia due to SIADH in the context of acute neuro-BD. Prior literature has identified persistent hiccups as a significant clinical indicator of severe hyponatraemia related to SIADH resulting from CNS inflammation, including conditions such as meningitis. Furthermore, as part of our initial workup for fever, arthralgia, and generalized fatigue—symptoms potentially attributable to either inflammatory or metabolic muscle injury—we measured CK, which led to the identification of rhabdomyolysis. Although rhabdomyolysis is a recognized complication of profound hyponatraemia, it is frequently underdiagnosed because it is not routinely assessed. While these clinical presentations are documented in the literature, their significance in the context of profound hyponatraemia is often underestimated. It is important for clinicians to recognize that seemingly unrelated symptoms, including hiccups and rhabdomyolysis, may serve as indicators of underlying electrolyte imbalances, especially amid neuroinflammatory disease processes.
------
===== NEW BATCH 10 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Corticosteroids are widely recognized as the primary therapy for acute neuro-BD, with the majority of patients exhibiting a favorable clinical response. Nonetheless, there have been instances where cases manifesting only with meningoencephalitis-like symptoms resolved spontaneously. In the case described here, administration of colchicine alone led to improvement in both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as correction of hyponatraemia. The anti-inflammatory action of colchicine is attributed to its ability to impede neutrophil migration and activation, along with its capacity to downregulate cytokine production, notably IL-1β and IL-6. While colchicine is frequently prescribed for mucocutaneous involvement in BD, evidence from systematic reviews indicates that it does not effectively treat acute neuro-BD; rather, immunosuppressive agents are usually needed to achieve optimal disease management. Indeed, documented cases have typically combined colchicine with corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive medications, instead of employing colchicine as a standalone treatment. Although spontaneous remission cannot be completely ruled out in this instance, the observations here indicate that colchicine could represent a valuable therapeutic alternative for acute neuro-BD and associated complications, such as SIADH, especially in situations where corticosteroid treatment is either unsuitable or contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We reported an unusual instance where BD and acute neuro-BD were identified at the same time, with neuro-BD being further complicated by the presence of SIADH. This report underscores that SIADH can manifest as a complication of acute neuro-BD and emphasizes the necessity for clinicians to recognize this possible link. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in swift resolution of both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as hyponatraemia, indicating that colchicine might serve as an effective treatment during the initial stage of neuro-BD. When encountering BD patients who exhibit vague central nervous system complaints such as fever and headache together with hyponatraemia, practitioners should strongly consider acute neuro-BD complicated by SIADH in their differential diagnosis.<|im_end|><|im_end|> Paul. “And that, of course, is very exciting because it means there is much to learn.”

While Paul and Ferl can’t say just yet what this means for their findings, data from the upcoming flight, which is scheduled to launch from Blue Origin’s West Texas launch site no earlier than Dec. 10, 2019, will help confirm earlier suborbital findings, potentially leading to a new breakthrough in their research with significant implications for human space exploration.

“Understanding the biological processes of plants in space can give us insight into those processes in humans, but the plants are important in and of themselves,” said Paul. 

Ferl added that while they and other scientists have grown successful plant harvests in sustained microgravity in space station experiments, their ongoing work is helping to understand the underlying metabolic changes that allow those plants to adapt to spaceflight. 

“Understanding what it takes to help plants thrive in space—as a food and oxygen source and for other needs—is crucial to any exploration initiative where the goal is a long-term habitat,” said Paul.

More Tech Aboard New Shepard: A Method for Managing Trash in Space

Seven other Flight Opportunities-supported payloads will also be tested on New Shepard, including the Orbital Syngas Commodity Augmentation Reactor—OSCAR for short. OSCAR, just like the Grouch, loves trash. The system uses two chemical processes, oxidation and steam reforming, to turn things like food packaging, old clothing and even human waste into water and a mixture of gases that include hydrogen, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and methane. OSCAR is one of several logistics reduction technologies NASA is investigating that could be useful for long-duration space exploration.

A multi-disciplinary team made up of early career researchers at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida is working on the project to help manage trash and waste in space and transform it into useful resources. The project is an Early Career Initiative funded by NASA’s Space Technology Mission Directorate.

NASA estimates that a crew of four astronauts will generate approximately 5,500 pounds of waste during a one-year mission. Future long-duration missions, such as sending humans to Mars, will require new methods for trash handling and disposal. If OSCAR can turn trash into gases that a crew can use, it would greatly reduce the space needed for waste storage, while also making it biologically safe.

“Trash management should be a primary consideration for long-duration deep space human spaceflight,” said Anne Meier, OSCAR’s principal investigator at Kennedy. “OSCAR will be the first time we look at some of the engineering operations and science involved in the design for such a system to work in microgravity.”

OSCAR’s launch on New Shepard will enable researchers to add to data from previous lab and drop tests, evaluate the performance of the reactor, and inform future designs. The instrument will use trash simulants for this suborbital test flight.

About Flight Opportunities

The Flight Opportunities program is funded by NASA’s Space Technology Mission Directorate and managed at NASA’s Armstrong Flight Research Center in Edwards, California. NASA’s Ames Research Center in California’s Silicon Valley manages the solicitation and evaluation of technologies to be tested and demonstrated on commercial flight vehicles.<|endoftext|>February 06, 2004

The truth about the Iraq war

The Truth about the Iraq War

We can debate the morality and chaotic aftermath of the 2003 Iraq War, and miss the bigger picture, which is far wider than the post 9/11 war against terror, or the current crisis among Palestinians and Israelis, or the situation in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, North Korea, or the convulsions in the UN and the EU, or US global dominance and accusations of aggressive imperialism.

The problem of the global village - and the truth about the Iraq war

Here is a simple but fundamental question, which was at the heart of the Iraq war controversy: how is the global village to run and be governed? It’s the hidden basis of the political conflicts in the UN over Iraq and similar issues.

The inescapable fact is that we are moving further every day to a one–world economy without a one–world government or legal structure.

Last-century thinking describes a world of nation states, where national sovereignty is absolute and cannot be violated under international law except to resist aggression and in self-defence. That was the French and German position on the war with Iraq and it has very powerful historical precedent.

But life has moved on. We will need a new model altogether if we are to live in prosperity and peace during the third millennium. That’s because at least 4 billion people are already living in towns, cities or rural areas which are profoundly affected by globalisation and the techno-communication revolution. They are already citizens of the global village, or the global nation of all nations.

The start of a new world order began with war in Iraq

Since the collapse of Communism we have seen the beginnings of a new world order: all nations working together in a semi-democratic global body to seek the common good, for the whole of humanity. It may be primitive and rather innefective, but is becoming more significant.

In the last decade the UN has grown in stature from a feeble committee weakened by bickering, paralysed by a tiny minority of countries who had the right of veto. The UN has become a stronger unifying force in world affairs. That’s why sharp debates over how to discipline Iraq’s government have been all the more shocking.

But don’t be misled by aggressive speeches: when you think back to the days of the Cold War, the consensus amongst developed nations in early 2003 for some kind of significant UN intervention in Iraq’s affairs was overwhelming by historical standards, although you would have been forgiven for thinking the opposite from the media coverage of UN voting intentions.

Lesson from the Cold War

During the Cold War, any threat of military invasion of a country by Russia or America would have produced in most cases immediate counter-threats by the other. As a result most wars were waged by proxy in far away places, between small nations funded and armed by both superpowers.

But in March 2003, despite all the hot air, not one nation in the world offered to fight for Sadam and protect Iraq from American invasion, least of all Russia or China. Not one other national army offered soldiers or weapons to protect Iraq national sovereignty, to liberate the people of Bagdad from foreign US-dominated forces, to underpin survival of the Sadam regime.

Sure, some nations held back, abstaining, remaining neutral. Some national leaders were making strong statements of protest - but these turned out to be only words, not backed by bullets. Where were the countries lining up to sell hundreds of high-tech missiles or tanks or planes to Iraq?

So the strange reality is that while it appears at first sight that the new fragile world order is crumbling into the dust, the opposite may be the case. Of course much depend on how Iraq instabily settles or flares, the early and "successful" withdrawal of US and other foreign troops, life for the Iraqi people post-withdrawal, and the impact on the region as a whole.

The current tensions and conflicts may well fuel further waves of terrorism, especially if the US fails to take a powerful lead, together with international support, to help establish a “just” Middle East peace settlement for both Palestinians and Israelis. It may also lead to destabilising regime changes in other Arab nations, replacing family dynasties with anti-American Islamic fundamentalism in countries like Saudi Arabia. But the current spats are unlikely to lead to destruction of the UN, nor the break up of the EU, nor the rapid neutering of American power - quite the opposite.

The world is far more united than words suggest

The truth is that most nations of the world united in condemnation of Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait, and again in imposing sanctions of many kinds over more than a decade since. They united again post-9/11 in a coalition against terror and more recently in insisting that UN-monitored disarmament took place.

When it came to discussions about weapons inspections and the threat of armed intervention, disagreement was almost entirely over process rather than substance: how disarmament should be achieved, measured, monitored and if necessary imposed, and over what timescale? At what point should the international community conclude that all alternatives to armed intervention have been exhausted? What form should military intervention take under such circumstances? How should it be led and financed? How should the peace be kept, reconstruction proceed and national autonomy be re-established?

Our memories are short. The level of multinational consensus about the need if necessary to intervene in the affairs of rogue states is extraordinary and unusual in world history.

That is why there is such a consensus about Iran now amongst France, Germany, Russia, UK, US, China, India and many other less powerful nations about the need for the international community to act by force if necessary, if Iran continues despite many warnings with an active programme to rapidly develop nuclear warheads.

And so we return to the global village – or rather the global nation of all humanity.

Economically, the world is already operating as a single closely inter-related organism. The problem is that mechanisms for governance, law and order are still primitive – feudal or medieval in nature. We have yet to grow up.

So we have “cities” in the global nation behaving like little kingdoms, taking the law into their own hands whenever it suits them (Russia and America), while at other times appealing to the “government” to impose common will on others.

What of the future? Life after the Iraq war will never be the same

Expect the world-wide love-hate relationship with America to become even more polarised, on the one hand hungrily devouring American media culture, on the other hand increasingly bitter and resentful at American power and lack of sensitivity to how the rest of the world works.

Expect new generations of terrorists to take courage and exact “revenge”, with the aim of “wounding American pride and arrogance”. Every one of them will tell you they are fighting for a higher moral cause.

Expect America to continue to feel deeply hurt, increasingly isolated and angry, the target of frequent terror attacks and general animosity in many places, acting forcefully around the world wherever it feels national interests dictate, and withdrawing to lick its wounds when it does not.

Expect America to be increasingly hostile to the idea of submitting in any respect whatsoever to the will of the global majority, whether on the environment, trade agreements or any other matter, and to be in even less mood to compromise than pre-Iraq War. Expect the US at the same time to make intensive diplomatic efforts to try to win back lost friends, but with ever-deepening suspicion of UN controls, inefficiency, corruption and influence.

In contrast, expect almost the entire rest of the world to invest intensively in the UN as the sole vehicle for solving complex international issues, in a quest to create a more sustainable and peaceful future.

Expect the EU to forge ahead with renewed energy to create structures to balance US power economically and militarily. But the EU will be severely restrained by ongoing internal conflicts, which will be made worse by every new country joining, as well as by unfolding events. Expect the UK to be frozen out of significant decisions by France and Germany who will seize every chance to dominate the future of the EU together, and to humiliate the US. Expect UK doubts to grow about whether it will ever sit comfortably within a Franco-German led federation of EU states. Expect France and Germany to be increasingly worried about rapid enlargement, and dilution of their power by pro-US nations with shaky economies, arguing passionately that the world will be a better place if there is a significant European counter-balance to the US.

Expect several non-European nations to embark on dangerous military adventures, arguing that the US has set a new model for them to copy: “legally” invading other countries when they could possibly be a future threat. India and Pakistan, North and South Korea and so on. These local wars could produce huge problems for the future stability of the world. Expect concerns about this to lead to calls for stronger structures and processes within the UN.

Reforming the UN as a more democratic global authority

A key challenge will be to reform the UN so that it can become more effective and fair as a federation of nations. The current powers of veto are anti-democratic and smack of nineteenth tyranny, held as they are by very few supremely powerful, wealthy nations,

The UN will only carry true global moral authority when each nation is able to cast votes in proportion to it’s contribution to global population, so that each citizen is represented equally without fear or favour. But this is an unthinkable prospect.

Even an idea of such a global assembly will provoke huge reactions in wealthy nations, because it strikes to the root of the most important unsolved problem on the planet today: the fact that most people are extremely poor, with no voice and no vote in world affairs, living off less than $2 a day.

Why global democracy is so unpopular

And so we find an interesting fact: those who live in democratic nations, who uphold democracy as the only honourable form of government, are not really true democrats after all. They have little or no interest in global democracy, in a nation of nations, in seeking the common good of the whole of humanity.

And it is this single fact, more than any other, this inequality of wealth and privilege in our shrinking global village, that will make it more likely that our future is dominate by terror groups, freedom fighters, justice-seekers, hell-raisers, protestors and violent agitators.

The lesson of history is that tyrannies and dictatorships get overthrown, that the will of the majority eventually finds a voice and freedom.

And that is exactly what will eventually happen in our non-democratic, dysfunctional, unjust, global village.

We cannot wind back the clock

We cannot wind the clock back fifty years to a cosy world where these country by country contrasts no longer matter. CNN and Hollywood have seen to that.

On TV screens in the poorest slums on earth, millions of people see their wealthy neighbours go about their daily lives while they scrabble in the dust to find money for basic food and shelter. They have seen the truth.

The digital society created the global village and globalisation the basic rules for trading within it, but neither has taught us how to live together in such a small cultural space. This is the greatest moral challenge of our time.

In a future world where small numbers of activists will wield unimagineable power with dirty bombs, nuclear devices, chemical weapons and strange viruses, our very survival will depend on finding a way to live together in harmony, with freedom and justice for all.

And that will require further extrensions of global governance.

History may record that it took us many decades, possibly, to agree to it – but what will be the pain along the way?<|endoftext|>How To Make Yourself Throw Up Conveniently

Throwing up is not pleasurable. Actually, no one can also stand the suggestion of it. However it ends up being a need at times, especially in situations of gastrointestinal disorder or acid indigestion. However, you should generate on your own to throw up as a last option, after consulting your doctor, and only in specific scenarios like if you have had excessive alcohol or ingested infected food or non-corrosive materials like tablets. In this post, we have actually noted different techniques on how to make yourself throw up conveniently.

Make Yourself Throw Up

Is Forcing Yourself To Throw Up A Great Suggestion?

Well, it depends upon the circumstance. If you are experiencing acid indigestion or food poisoning, throwing up will provide relief. It not just ensures that your body gets rid of all the contaminants as well as allergens however also aids you feel lighter and also better nearly quickly.

Nevertheless, if you are forcing on your own to throw up every other day, this is where the trouble starts. Some individuals often tend to make it a habit of causing vomiting, be it to drop weight or perhaps whenever they really feel queasy. This recurring habits can put a lot of stress on the esophagus and also upper respiratory system and also can cause your food pipe and also throat tissues to tear.

So, you have to not make vomiting a cure for anything that makes you feel blue. However, if the scenario really calls for it and your only option is to throw up, you can try any one of the following methods to aid you throw up.

Throw Up With Your Finger

As disgusting as it might seem, pressing your finger down your throat will certainly help cause vomiting. All you have to do is push your finger at the back of your tongue.

Why This Works
When your finger comes in call with the back of your tongue, your body reacts and also triggers a trick reflex. This, in turn, makes you sick and also triggers you to throw up (1 ), (2 ).

Warm Seawater Throw Up

Include a tsp or two of salt to a glass of water. Consume this saline solution in a single gulp. This takes 25-30 mins, as well as you can use your finger to quicken the procedure.

Why This Functions
Salt includes salt, excessive of which can create a shift in the natural electrolyte balance of your body, consequently generating you to expel the water (3 ).

Throw Up with Coca-Cola

Consuming Coca-Cola that has actually lacked bubbles (co2) every hour can make you unwell and also intend to vomit. All you need to do is drink water as a follow-up after consuming alcohol Coca-Cola to set off vomiting.

Why This Functions
Coca-Cola that is simply opened may really be helpful in dealing with an upset stomach, however if it has actually lost ground, it is entirely a
------
 this time straight into Emma's mouth, She continued to suck until it stopped Cumming out of his cock. She sat back up and smiled, Jeff did too. He couldn't believe his luck he had never had a girl do this for him and now this goddess was doing it to him but it was his sister. He knew it was wrong but he also now how good it felt. He looked down at her breasts again he couldn't believe he didn't notice these before, he would have to pay closer attention in the future.

Jeff continued to look and he noticed that his head was getting closer to her body and then he decided to take a nipple into his mouth. This surprised Emma she had regularly played with her breasts but never had this feeling that she was getting from Jeff sucking on it. He rotated his mouth to left to right and then back again and then kissed and licked up her chest to her neck and then to her chin until he could see her lips. He hadn't noticed before but she really nice lips. He then moved in and his lips made with contact with hers and her mouth opened and their tongues found each other She had been kissed only once twice before with the two actors on her first film but they had never kissed her like this. She lay back on the bed and could feel chest against her nipples pressing up against his nipples. She instinctively spread her legs slightly and Jeff moved his body between her legs his whole body weight against her but she couldn't the weight except the hotness of his body. She could also feel his cock against her stomach and she reached down and grabbed it and moved it to her already wet pussy lips. The head of his cock went in and Jeff got the urge to start to thrust and with that his big cock started to slide in and out of her pussy, the more he thrust the more he would get in. And then Emma started to move her body up to his thrust, her hymen already broken from all the dangerous stunts she had done in the last movie and all the masturbating she had done over the last couple of months. Emma had never felt this way, her pussy was on fire, she felt so full, Jeff's cock going in and out of her, she looked down and could see her glistening juices on the shaft of Jeff's cock. She started to moan heavily as her first orgasm hit her and she closed her legs behind Jeff's back and pushed her pelvis forward as Jeff finally got all 8 inches inside his sister. Jeff knew he couldn't last much longer with Emma being so tight and this being his first fuck he was already close to Cumming. He grabbed Emma's body and turned it around, she landed on all fours and quickly learnt what Jeff had intended he started to thrust back into her tight wet pussy, she had heard of this from her girlfriends, that had said that you could feel more of the cock and if done right would make her orgasm quicker because a big cock would also rub against a girls clitoris. Jeff placed his hands on the side of Emma's body and pulled her back onto his cock and then he noticed her breasts moving forward and back with every thrust and he grabbed his sisters breasts and started to pinch her nipples, she moved back against him her back against his chest and then she felt him cum, she could feel his sperm exploded into her pussy, her pussy muscles milking his cock dry.

They both lay back down, Jeff's cock still inside of his sisters pussy he hugged her from behind and they lay in the spoon position. She couldn't believe she was no longer a virgin and even more that she had lost it to her brother. She was about to say to Jeff that this had been a mistake and they shouldn't have done this but then she felt his cock starting to expand in her pussy and she said what the hell, Fuck me Jeff give it to your sister, make me your slut.

The End

Show the rest »<|endoftext|>Eger, Hungary

In 1942 William Beveridge, a British academic and civil servant, published his blueprint of a welfare state for Great Britain in his account of the “Five Giants”: disease, idleness, ignorance, squalor and want. He proposed new benefits for the retired, disabled and unemployed, a universal allowance for children and a nationwide health service. Polls found that majorities of all social classes backed these proposals. The blueprint was translated into 22 languages and the Royal Air Force dropped summaries on Allied troops and behind enemy lines. Such zeal for the welfare state is rare nowadays. Liberals such as Beveridge believed that people should take more responsibility for their own lives, but that government should support them. They did not see it as industrialised charity, but as a complement to free-market capitalism. In the second half of the 19th century the rise of unfettered markets brought demands for protection against its effects. Charity and churches were seen as failing to cope with poverty, as mass urbanisation weakened traditional bonds. Pressure came from socialists, but liberals responded, too. “New liberals” such as John Stuart Mill and Leonard Hobhouse argued that freedom meant ensuring that people had the health, education and security to lead the life they wanted. The development of welfare states was then hastened by the Great Depression and World War II. The war fostered a sense of unity and as middle classes shared the risks, their demands for support meant the welfare state became about more than just looking after the poor. The post-war government in Britain implemented most of Beveridge’s plan and similar reforms soon followed elsewhere in Europe. Welfare states have always differed from country to country, but from the 1970s on approaches diverged further. In the 1990s the Danish sociologist Esping-Anderson distinguished three varieties of “welfare capitalism”. First were the “social democratic” versions in Scandinavian countries with high public spending, strong trade unions, universal benefits and support for women to stay in the workplace. Second, “conservative” welfare states, such as Germany’s were built around the traditional family and had a strong contributory principle. Third, the “Anglo-American” welfare states, which put greater emphasis on guaranteed minimums than on universal benefits as in Britain.

Perhaps the most common charge against European mature welfare states is that they have created a culture of dependency. So policy makers have made programmes more “conditional”, forcing recipients to look for work, for example; and to help them, many countries expanded “active labour market policies”, such as retraining. The wide-spread notion that the welfare state is mainly about redistribution from rich to poor is a myth. Nowadays its role is more to allow people to smooth consumption over their lifetimes, in effect shifting money from their younger selves to their older selves. As countries become wealthier, public spending increases as a share of GDP. Spending on social protection, like pensions, health care and benefits, in OECD countries has increased from 5 per cent in 1960 to 15 per cent in 1980 to 21 per cent in 2016. Nevertheless, since 2000, some Scandinavian countries, for example, have combined high levels of public spending with high rates of economic growth. The effects of welfare depend not just on how much is spent, but how. Subsidised child care, which helps mostly women stay in the labour market, is more growth-friendly than pensions. The difficulties welfare states in rich European countries face are about more than just their size. The three main difficulties relate to demography, migration and changing labour markets. The fact of the ageing European population means that welfare spending is increasingly shifted towards the elderly. This threatens the implicit contract between generations. Meanwhile Denmark and Finland have linked state retirement ages to life expectancy, so will the Netherlands. In Germany, Portugal and Sweden pension levels are adjusted according to the ratios of workers to non-workers.

Immigration poses another challenge to the welfare state. In 1978 Milton Friedman argued that you could have open borders or generous welfare states open to all, but not both, without swamping the welfare system. Moreover, taxpayers are more tolerant of benefits that are seen to look after “people like them”. A study published in 2017 using survey data from 114 European regions found a correlation between areas with higher shares of migrants and a lack of support for a generous welfare state. Another survey of changing attitudes in European countries between 2002 and 2012 found both rising support for redistribution for “natives” and sharp opposition to migration and automatic access to benefits for new arrivals. Such popular views form a core part of the appeal of populists in Europe such as the Front National in France, the Sweden Democrats or the Danish People’s Party. The nature of the benefits influences attitudes as well. Immediate access to health care and public education for immigrants is widely supported by European populations, but benefits should not extend to unemployment or child benefit. Moreover, attitudes towards immigrants are volatile and swayed by the political climate. In 2011, for example, 40 per cent of Britons said immigrants “undermined” the country’s cultural life, and just 26 per cent believed they enriched it. By 2017, in the wake of the Brexit vote, only 23 per cent believed immigrants undermined British culture, compared to 44 per cent who believed they enriched British culture. Immigration might offer a partial solution to the first problem of ageing because since at least 2002 EU migrants have contributed much more in taxes than they have cost in public services, as economic research in Britain and Denmark has found out.

The third issue is adapting to changing labour markets. The welfare state developed at a time of powerful government, powerful companies and powerful trade unions. The economic aim after World War II was full male employment. Recent research by the OECD in seven of its member countries estimated that 60 per cent of the working-age population had stable full-time work. Of the other 40 per cent, no more than a quarter met the typical definition of unemployed, namely out of a job, but looking for one. Most had dropped out of the labour market completely or worked volatile hours. The causes are complex and overlapping, but hey include the incentives and disincentives to work that complex benefits systems produce. Universal basic income (UBI) may be one way to avoid such problems. It may take many different forms, but basically replaces a wide range of means-tested benefits with a single unconditional one, paid to everyone. Scotland and the Netherlands are running experiments involving UBI, but in no country is it yet the foundation of the benefits system of working-age adults. The OECD recently modelled two forms of basic income. Under the first one, a country’s spending in benefits is divided equally among everyone – a revenue-neutral form. Under the second one, everyone would receive benefits equal to the current minimum-income guarantee, and taxes would rise to pay for it, if necessary.<|endoftext|>Public Goods

Goods and services for public well-being


Factual Overviews

Pandemic Preparedness: Is a plan enough?

The recent COVID-19 pandemic shook the world and raised questions on our global preparedness against a pandemic.


Our Positions

What Is The Plan For Public Transportation In A COVID-19 World?

While the MY30 public transportation pass is commendable, we ask what are the policy commitments for getting public transportation back on track in the new normal.

Comment: National Transport Policy 2019-2030

Good high-level messages but lacking in necessary specifics.

Set Public Transportation Data Free

Make real-time public transport information public, free and useable.


In-depth Explorations

Kesan PKP terhadap Kewangan, Pekerjaan dan Kesejahteraan Mental

Bagaimana anjakan dalam pekerjaan dan pendapatan sepanjang tempoh PKP memberi kesan terhadap kesejahteraan mental di Malaysia? Kami meninjau keadaan kewangan rakyat Malaysia di kala krisis kesihatan awam.

PKP dan Kesejahteraan Mental: Rumahku Syurgaku?

Apakah keadaan kesejahteraan mental di Malaysia semasa PKP? Kami mengkaji dan lihat bagaimana ia berkait dengan keadaan kediaman.

How the MCO Affected Income, Jobs, and Mental Well-Being

How have the shifts in employment and income during the MCO affected mental well-being in Malaysia? A look into the financial situation of Malaysians in a time of public health crisis.

Nobody Spared: Covid-19, MCO and Mental-Wellbeing

The Covid-19 pandemic and the Movement Control Order (MCO) are affecting the mental and emotional health of people living in Malaysia

MCO and Mental Well-Being: Home Sweet Home?

What is the state of mental well-being in Malaysia during the MCO? We look at this and how it relates to living conditions.

Getting Around: Towards a Decent Daily Commute

Adoption of public transport is still relatively low in Klang Valley and other metro areas. What are the key issues we face in commuting by public transport? We summarise the main problems, propose some solutions and suggest some minimum standards.<|endoftext|>208 pp. per issue
8 1/2 x 11, illustrated
2014 Impact factor:

Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience

January 2016, Vol. 28, No. 1, Pages 55-68
(doi: 10.1162/jocn_a_00879)
© 2015 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Development of Network Synchronization Predicts Language Abilities
Article PDF (901.9 KB)

Synchronization of oscillations among brain areas is understood to mediate network communication supporting cognition, perception, and language. How task-dependent synchronization during word production develops throughout childhood and adolescence, as well as how such network coherence is related to the development of language abilities, remains poorly understood. To address this, we recorded magnetoencephalography while 73 participants aged 4–18 years performed a verb generation task. Atlas-guided source reconstruction was performed, and phase synchronization among regions was calculated. Task-dependent increases in synchronization were observed in the theta, alpha, and beta frequency ranges, and network synchronization differences were observed between age groups. Task-dependent synchronization was strongest in the theta band, as were differences between age groups. Network topologies were calculated for brain regions associated with verb generation and were significantly associated with both age and language abilities. These findings establish the maturational trajectory of network synchronization underlying expressive language abilities throughout childhood and adolescence and provide the first evidence for an association between large-scale neurophysiological network synchronization and individual differences in the development of language abilities.<|endoftext|>Triumph in North Africa. March 10, 298.

  Maximian was Roman Emperor from 286 to 305. He was Caesar from 285 to 286, then Augustus from 286 to 305. He shared the latter title with his co-emperor and superior, Diocletian, whose political brain complemented Maximian’s military brawn. The man he appointed to police the Channel shores, Carausius, rebelled in 286, causing the secession of Britain and northwestern Gaul. Maximian failed to oust Carausius, and his invasion fleet was destroyed by storms in 289 or 290. Maximian’s subordinate, Constantius, campaigned against Carausius’ successor while Maximian held the Rhine frontier. The rebel leader was ousted in 296, and Maximian moved south to combat piracy near Hispania and Berber incursions in Mauretania. With Constantius’ victorious return after he expel...

Lost Password<|endoftext|>Westminster Hall

Cromwell´s exhumation and execution. January 30, 1661.

In December 1648, in an episode that became known as Pride’s Purge, a troop of soldiers headed by Colonel Thomas Pride forcibly removed from the Long Parliament all those who were not supporters of the Grandees in the New Model Army and the Independents. Thus weakened, the remaining body of MPs, known as the Rump Parliament, agreed that Charles should be tried on a charge of treason. Cromwell was by that time in the north of England, dealing with Royalist resistance, when these events took place, but then returned to London. On the day after Pride’s Purge, he became a determined supporter of those pushing for the King’s trial and execution, believing that killing Charles was the only way to end the civil wars. Cromwell approved Thomas Brook’s address to the House of...

Lost Password<|endoftext|>NAME JSON::Eval - eval Perl code found in JSON SYNOPSIS my $encoder = JSON::Eval->new(); my $object = { coderef => sub { 2 + shift }, scalarref => do { my $x = 40; \$x }, }; my $jsontext = $encoder->encode($object); my $decoded = $encoder->decode($jsontext); my $coderef = $decoded->{coderef}; my $scalarref = $decoded->{scalarref}; print $coderef->($$scalarref); # 42 DESCRIPTION Perl data structures can contain several types of reference which do not have a JSON equivalent. This module provides a technique for encoding and decoding two of those reference types as JSON: coderefs and scalarrefs. (It also has partial support for Type::Tiny objects.) Coderefs must be self-contained, not closing over any variables. They will be encoded as the following JSON: { "$eval": "sub { ... }" } When decoding, any JSON object that contains a single key called "$eval" and no other keys will be passed through eval to return the original coderef. (Technically, when decoding, the Perl code being evaluated doesn't have to return a coderef; it can return anything. This could allow for filehandles or blessed objects, for example, to be decoded from JSON.) Scalarrefs are encoded as: { "$scalar": ... } So for example, the following JSON: { "foo": { "$scalar:" 42 } } Will be decoded to this Perl structure: { 'foo' => \ 42 } Object-Oriented Interface `new` Use the `new` method to make an encoder. my $encoder = JSON::Eval->new($backend); my $encoder = JSON::Eval->new(); $backend is a JSON::PP-compatible object that JSON::Eval will use to actually produce valid JSON. Any of JSON::PP, JSON::XS, or Cpanel::JSON::XS should work fine. If you don't provide a backend, JSON::Eval will use JSON::MaybeXS to find the best supported backend available on your system. `encode` Encode a Perl reference to JSON. my $jsontext = $encoder->encode($ref); `decode` Decode a Perl reference from JSON. my $ref = $encoder->decode($jsontext); `eval_object` and `deparse_object` These don't directly operate on JSON data, but are used internally by JSON::Eval. If you're a smart cookie, it shouldn't take long for you to figure out what they do. They're a stable and supported part of the API, but this is all you're getting in terms of their documentation. AUTOLOAD JSON::Eval uses AUTOLOAD to pass other method calls
------
===== NEW BATCH 11 | input_ids shape=(2, 4048) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4048) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Recent advances, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, are ushering in a new generation of 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). In this paper, we propose a novel 1-bit LLM variant, designated as \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, where each parameter (or weight) assumes ternary values from \{-1, 0, 1\}. This model is able to attain parity with its full-precision counterparts (i.e., FP16 or BF16 Transformer LLMs) of equivalent architecture and token count, achieving similar perplexity and downstream task results. Importantly, this 1.58-bit configuration yields dramatic reductions in latency, memory footprint, computational throughput, and energy demands, thereby delivering substantial improvements in efficiency. On a deeper level, the 1.58-bit LLM offers a fresh scaling law and a training strategy that enables future LLM generations to reach both high performance and heightened cost-effectiveness. Additionally, this innovation facilitates novel computational frameworks and catalyzes the development of specialized hardware tailored for 1-bit LLM workloads.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

Artificial Intelligence research has recently witnessed an extraordinary expansion in both the scale and proficiency of Large Language Models (LLMs). These systems exhibit state-of-the-art results across diverse natural language processing benchmarks; however, their escalating model sizes have introduced obstacles for widespread deployment, especially considering the environmental and financial burdens imposed by their substantial energy usage.

A promising avenue to mitigate these challenges is post-training quantization, wherein models are transformed to operate at lower numerical precision after training~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. By quantizing weights and activations, memory and computation requirements are significantly lowered, enabling LLMs to be deployed more efficiently. The field has advanced from 16-bit implementations towards reduced precision variants, including 4-bit models~\cite{gptq, awq}. Nevertheless, post-training quantization, though prevalent in production-level LLMs, is fundamentally limited in optimality.

Recent advancements in 1-bit model architectures, notably BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, highlight a compelling approach for lowering the operational expenses of LLMs without compromising their accuracy. Traditional LLMs employ 16-bit floating-point representations (such as FP16 or BF16), with matrix multiplications constituting the core computational workload. Consequently, floating-point additions and multiplications dominate the overall computational cost. In contrast, BitNet’s matrix multiplication relies solely on integer additions, dramatically reducing the energy consumption typically required by LLMs. Since the primary bottleneck for computational speed on many hardware platforms is power consumption, these energy reductions also enable acceleration of computation.

Beyond raw computation, the act of moving model weights from DRAM into an on-chip accelerator’s local memory (such as SRAM) during inference can incur significant overheads. Some strategies have attempted to address this by increasing SRAM capacity to boost throughput, but this approach is substantially more expensive compared to scaling DRAM. In comparison to their full-precision counterparts, 1-bit LLMs are markedly more efficient regarding memory usage in both storage capacity and bandwidth requirements. This improvement leads to reduced latency and lower costs when transferring model weights from DRAM, thereby facilitating quicker and more effective inference.

In this paper, we propose an advanced 1-bit LLM variant named \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, in which each parameter adopts one of three possible values: \{-1, 0, 1\}. By augmenting the original 1-bit BitNet representation with an explicit 0 value, the new design requires just 1.58 bits per parameter in the binary system. \text{BitNet b1.58} preserves all the core advantages of its predecessor, including its computational framework that nearly eliminates multiplications during matrix operations and can be extensively optimized. It maintains comparable energy efficiency and offers considerable improvements in memory requirements, throughput, and inference latency over FP16-based LLMs. Additionally, \text{BitNet b1.58} introduces two further benefits. The first is a heightened representational power—attributed to the explicit inclusion of zero in the parameter space, which allows for direct feature filtering and substantively enhances 1-bit LLM effectiveness. The second advantage, confirmed by our empirical results, is that \text{BitNet b1.58} is able to achieve parity with full-precision (FP16) models in both perplexity and downstream task metrics, provided the models share equivalent settings (such as size and the amount of training tokens) at the 3B parameter scale and beyond.

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} builds upon the BitNet framework, a variant of Transformer networks that substitutes \emph{nn.Linear} layers with \emph{BitLinear} layers. This model is trained from the beginning, utilizing 1.58-bit weights in conjunction with 8-bit activations. While it remains grounded in the foundational BitNet design, it incorporates several notable updates, detailed as follows.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} To ensure the weights are limited to the values -1, 0, or +1, we employ an \emph{absmean} quantization method. This technique first normalizes the weight matrix by dividing by its mean absolute value and subsequently rounds each element to the closest value in the set \{-1, 0, +1\}:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

For activations, the quantization follows the standard approach in BitNet, with one key distinction: we omit scaling activations to the interval $[0, Q_b]$ before non-linear transformations. Instead, all activations are rescaled per token to fit the range $[-Q_b, Q_b]$, eliminating zero-point quantization. This modification not only streamlines the implementation and benefits system-level efficiency but also has minimal impact on empirical performance.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

LLaMA~\cite{llama, llama2} has established itself as the reference backbone in the open-source LLM landscape. In line with this trend, the design of \text{BitNet b1.58} incorporates components inspired by LLaMA. It features RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, and rotary embeddings~\cite{rope}, and omits all bias terms. These decisions facilitate straightforward adoption of \text{BitNet b1.58} into widely used open-source frameworks such as Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}.

\section{Results}

We conducted a comparison between \text{BitNet b1.58} and our reimplemented FP16 version of \text{LLaMA LLM} across multiple model scales. To ensure an equitable evaluation, both models underwent pre-training on the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama}, each processing 100 billion tokens. We assessed zero-shot capabilities over several language benchmarks: ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. Additionally, validation perplexity was measured on the WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4} corpora.

Further, we analyzed GPU memory usage and inference latency for both \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58}. Measurements were obtained via the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} framework, which is specifically optimized for accelerating LLM inference on GPU platforms. For \text{BitNet b1.58}, the integration included Ladder's~\cite{ladder} 2-bit kernel. To highlight inference efficiency, we reported the average time required per output token.

In Table~\ref{tab:ppl}, we present a comparative overview of perplexity and resource consumption for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. The findings indicate that \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves parity with full precision \text{LLaMA LLM} in terms of perplexity from the 3B parameter regime onwards, while delivering a 2.71-fold increase in speed and reducing GPU memory utilization by a factor of 3.55. Notably, the 3.9B variant of \text{BitNet b1.58} not only surpasses the speed (by 2.4$\times$) and memory efficiency (by 3.32$\times$) of the \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B model, but also demonstrates superior overall performance.

Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot} details zero-shot accuracy for a set of downstream tasks. Evaluations followed the \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}} procedure. The accuracy results demonstrate that, as model size increases, the difference between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} performance diminishes. Significantly, starting from the 3B size, \text{BitNet b1.58} can achieve results comparable to the full precision baseline. Mirroring the perplexity analysis, downstream task outcomes confirm that \text{BitNet b1.58} at 3.9B parameters consistently exceeds \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B, while requiring fewer computational resources. These results position \text{BitNet b1.58} as a Pareto improvement in the context of state-of-the-art LLMs.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

We expanded our experiments to include models with 7B, 13B, and 70B parameters and analyzed the associated computational costs. The results, as depicted in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy}, demonstrate that both latency and memory usage trends improve with increased model scale; notably, the performance benefit (in terms of speed-up) becomes more pronounced for larger models. Specifically, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B achieves a 4.1-fold reduction in inference time relative to the \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline. This improvement stems from the scaling behavior of the \emph{nn.Linear} operation, whose time complexity increases with the number of parameters. Memory utilization displays a comparable pattern, since the embedding layer—maintained in full precision—accounts for a proportionally smaller memory footprint in larger architectures. The data for both latency and memory were collected using a 2-bit kernel, indicating that further efficiency gains may be achievable through continued optimization.

\paragraph{Energy}

We also calculated the energy expenditure associated with arithmetic operations for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} models. Our primary consideration was matrix multiplication, given its dominant role in large language model computational cost. Figure~\ref{fig:energy} breaks down the sources of energy consumption: in \text{BitNet b1.58}, most operations involve INT8 addition, whereas \text{LLaMA LLM} predominantly relies on FP16 addition and multiplication. Utilizing the energy estimation framework from~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, we found that \text{BitNet b1.58} reduces the matrix multiplication energy requirement by a factor of 71.4 when run on 7nm semiconductor technology. Additionally, we reported full inference energy costs for processing sequences of 512 tokens, observing that as model size increases, the energy efficiency advantage of \text{BitNet b1.58} over the FP16-based \text{LLaMA LLM} becomes more substantial. This advantage is attributable to the growing share of computation spent on \emph{nn.Linear} operations, while the contribution of other elements becomes relatively less significant in larger models.

\paragraph{Throughput}

We assess the throughput performance of \text{BitNet b1.58} relative to the \text{LLaMA LLM} with 70B parameters, deploying both models across two 80GB A100 GPUs. Pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe} was implemented to enable the execution of \text{LLaMA LLM} 70B within these hardware constraints. The batch size was incrementally increased up to the maximum allowable by GPU memory, with the input sequence length fixed at 512. According to Table~\ref{tab:throughput}, the 70B \text{BitNet b1.58} supports batch sizes up to 11 times larger than those feasible with \text{LLaMA LLM}, translating to an 8.9-fold improvement in throughput.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} introduces a new paradigm in the scaling law for model performance vis-à-vis inference cost}. Drawing from the analyses depicted in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and \ref{fig:energy}, we can establish the following correspondences for comparable efficiency between 1.58-bit and 16-bit model configurations:

\begin{itemize}
    \item BitNet b1.58 at 13B parameters surpasses the 3B FP16 LLM in terms of latency, memory footprint, and energy consumption.
    \item BitNet b1.58 at 30B parameters exceeds the efficiency of a 7B FP16 LLM across latency, memory, and energy usage.
    \item BitNet b1.58 at 70B parameters is more resource-efficient than a 13B FP16 LLM, measured by latency, memory, and energy metrics.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

The volume of training tokens significantly impacts large language model effectiveness. To investigate the token scalability of \text{BitNet b1.58}, we trained it on 2T tokens utilizing the same data pipeline as StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, a leading open-source model with 3B parameters. Both models underwent evaluation on a composite benchmark comprising Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}. Zero-shot accuracy outcomes are summarized in Table~\ref{tab:2t}. For benchmarks reporting both accuracy and normalized accuracy, we use their average. The performance statistics for StableLM 3b with 2T tokens were extracted directly from its official documentation. The results demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} consistently outperforms across all evaluated tasks, underscoring the robust generalization capacity of 1.58-bit LLMs.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architectures have emerged as a resource-efficient solution in the context of LLMs. Despite the reduction in computational FLOPs, practical adoption of MoE is often constrained by high memory demands and the cost of inter-chip communication. Leveraging 1.58-bit LLMs offers remedies to these bottlenecks. Primarily, the minimized memory footprint enables MoE models to require fewer hardware units for deployment. Additionally, the communication cost associated with transferring activations across devices is drastically lowered. If the entirety of a model is able to reside on a single chip, this overhead could be eliminated altogether.

\textbf{Native Support for Long Sequences in LLMs}

As LLM applications increasingly require the processing of extended sequences, managing long contexts is a growing necessity. A principal limitation in this scenario is the significant memory usage stemming from KV cache storage during inference. \text{BitNet b1.58} marks an important advancement toward innate support for long sequences, primarily by lowering activation precision from 16 bits to 8 bits, thereby effectively allowing the context window to expand twofold with equivalent computational resources. Future work could focus on further compressing these activations, potentially to 4 bits or even lower for 1.58-bit LLMs, while preserving information without loss.

\textbf{LLMs for Edge and Mobile Applications}

Employing 1.58-bit LLMs holds significant promise for enhancing language model functionality on edge and mobile platforms. These platforms generally operate under stringent memory and compute constraints, which limit both model scale and achievable performance. With decreased demands on memory and energy, 1.58-bit LLMs make feasible deployments that were previously impractical, unlocking a variety of novel application scenarios. Furthermore, their compatibility with CPUs—which are the predominant processors in edge and mobile hardware—means that \text{BitNet b1.58} can be effectively run on such devices, advancing their potential capabilities.

\textbf{Specialized Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Initiatives like Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}} have illustrated the considerable promise of developing dedicated hardware, such as LPUs, to support LLM operations. Expanding on these efforts, there is a need to pursue the design and implementation of hardware and systems explicitly tailored for the efficient execution of 1-bit LLMs. The computational approaches pioneered by BitNet~\cite{bitnet} motivate and justify this new hardware direction.<|im_end|>
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: We describe an uncommon presentation of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) diagnosed simultaneously with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), meeting the criteria for definite BD, and further complicated by the occurrence of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). The patient, a man in his 60s, exhibited symptoms including fever, headache, hyponatraemia, and mucocutaneous involvement such as oral aphthae, folliculitis-like skin eruptions, and genital ulcers. The diagnosis of BD was established based on these mucocutaneous signs. Neuroimaging with brain MRI yielded normal results, while cerebrospinal fluid analysis identified aseptic meningitis, thus substantiating a diagnosis of acute neuro-BD. Laboratory evaluation fulfilled SIADH diagnostic criteria. The administration of colchicine alone resulted in remission of mucocutaneous, neurological, and biochemical (hyponatraemia) manifestations, eliminating the necessity for corticosteroid or additional immunosuppressive therapy. This report highlights a potential link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH, emphasizing the need for clinicians to be vigilant for simultaneous neurological and endocrine complications in cases of newly identified BD.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent inflammatory condition affecting multiple organ systems, most notably presenting with repeated oral and genital ulcers, uveitis, and cutaneous manifestations. Neurological complications, termed neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), develop in roughly 10%–20% of cases, generally manifesting several years subsequent to the initial BD diagnosis. The acute form of neuro-BD is predominantly characterized by meningoencephalitis and parenchymal lesions, frequently localized to the brainstem region. Although concurrent diagnosis of BD and neuro-BD is uncommon—most instances are identified sequentially—simultaneous presentation requires clinicians to evaluate both mucocutaneous findings and neurological symptoms, such as headache, behavioral disturbances, psychiatric complaints, and focal neurological impairments.

Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) represents a prominent etiology of hyponatraemia, commonly precipitated by central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, neoplastic processes, or specific pharmaceuticals. Given the underlying CNS inflammatory processes in acute neuro-BD, there is a plausible risk for the emergence of SIADH in these patients. While prior documentation links SIADH with BD cases treated with agents like cyclophosphamide, the incidence of SIADH due solely to CNS inflammation associated with acute neuro-BD—absent drug-induced factors—remains insufficiently characterized.

Here, we describe an exceptional instance in which BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed simultaneously, with the additional complication of SIADH. This case underscores the necessity of considering SIADH as a possible clinical manifestation in acute neuro-BD, particularly in individuals who exhibit non-specific CNS symptoms coupled with hyponatraemia.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his 60s arrived at the emergency department, complaining of a 3-day period marked by fever, headache, general fatigue, diminished appetite, unrelenting hiccups, and joint pain localized to his shoulders and ankles. Additionally, he described the presence of oral aphthous ulcers.

His past medical history was notable for type 2 diabetes mellitus, which remained unmanaged due to his limited awareness of the diagnosis and a lack of adherence to recommended lifestyle modifications regarding diet and physical activity. The patient’s family history did not reveal any instances of BD among his relatives. Socially, he was an occasional alcohol consumer, did not use tobacco, and reported no recent travel, animal contact, or interactions with ill persons. He was employed in metalworking and had not had recent sexual encounters.

Upon assessment, the patient was conscious yet exhibited signs of tiredness. His recorded vital signs included a body temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure measuring 135/73 mm Hg, a regular heart rate of 119 beats per minute, a respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation of 96% while breathing ambient air. The physical examination identified oral aphthous ulcers and folliculitis-like lesions on his facial and truncal regions (figure 1A, B and C). No abnormalities were noted on cardiopulmonary or abdominal examination. Manual muscle testing demonstrated intact muscle strength in both upper and lower limbs. There was no evidence of peripheral edema, and clinical evaluation indicated he was euvolemic. He was hospitalized to enable further diagnostic assessment.

Investigations:

The initial set of laboratory investigations demonstrated pronounced hyponatraemia (124 mmol/L) alongside raised creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein (CRP) at 180 mg/L (reference, <3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate at 70 mm/hour (reference, <15 mm/hour), while renal function remained within normal parameters. Additionally, the patient exhibited hyperglycaemia, as evidenced by a plasma glucose of 14.2 mmol/L, and a HbA1c value of 8.2%, reflecting suboptimal glycaemic regulation. Testing for hepatitis B and C returned negative results.

Further assessment of endocrine status showed thyroid-stimulating hormone within the normal range (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 at 1.25 ng/dL (reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL), and a normal serum cortisol concentration (42 µg/dL; reference, >6 µg/dL). There was evidence of hypo-osmolality in serum (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg) and a simultaneously increased urine osmolality (900 mOsm/kg; reference, >300 mOsm/kg) with elevated urinary sodium (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), indicative of compromised water clearance. Despite the presence of hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, the antidiuretic hormone (ADH) was inappropriately high (22.4 pg/mL). Electrocardiogram (ECG), chest radiography, and computed tomography of the head, chest, and abdomen yielded no pathological findings. Collectively, these results were compatible with a diagnosis of SIADH.

By the third day, the patient's headache and vertigo had intensified. Despite the absence of nuchal rigidity or signs of cranial nerve dysfunction, central nervous system inflammation was considered. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain did not demonstrate significant pathological findings in the hypothalamic region or elsewhere (figure 2). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis showed a mildly increased opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), elevated protein concentration (0.97 g/L), and a slight lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). Microbiological assays of the CSF, including cultures and assessments for bacterial, mycobacterial organisms, herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcal antigen, returned negative results. Cytological assessment did not detect malignant cells in the CSF.

Additional diagnostic workup was undertaken to rule out systemic disorders. Evaluation for sarcoidosis found lysozyme (5.1 µg/mL; reference 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme concentrations (11.4 U/L; reference 7–25) to be within reference ranges. Hematological malignancy was explored by measuring soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) (704 U/mL; reference, 122–496 U/mL); human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 antibody was negative.

On the fifth day, the patient developed a painful ulcer on the scrotum (figure 1D). In conjunction with oral aphthous lesions and rashes resembling folliculitis, these features supported the diagnosis of a systemic variant of BD. There was no evidence of pathergy to a pinprick. Ophthalmologic evaluation did not reveal uveitis. The HLA-B51 antigen was detected.

Differential diagnosis:

Upon initial evaluation, the simultaneous presence of fever, headache, general malaise, and hyponatraemia was indicative of a potential central nervous system (CNS) infection or an underlying systemic inflammatory process. Viral meningoencephalitis—especially due to HSV or VZV—was the primary clinical suspicion. Nevertheless, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analyses returned negative for both viral antigens and antibodies, effectively ruling out these pathogens. Consideration was also given to bacterial meningitis, but this was excluded based on the absence of neutrophilic dominance, the presence of only mild lymphocytic pleocytosis, and negative CSF culture results. Tuberculous meningitis was dismissed owing to negative outcomes for both acid-fast bacilli staining and tuberculosis DNA assays.

The possibility of a primary CNS tumor was evaluated because of the neurological presentation. Yet, brain MRI produced normal results, and no malignant cells were identified on CSF cytology. Although soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) levels were found to be modestly raised, this isolated elevation was insufficient evidence to affirm a diagnosis of CNS lymphoma.

Screening for autoimmune disorders was performed but did not yield supporting evidence, given the lack of defining systemic clinical features and negative autoantibody assays. Neurosarcoidosis was considered, acknowledging that early-stage MRI imaging may be non-revealing, but subsequent laboratory workup rendered this diagnosis improbable. The slight rise in sIL-2R was interpreted as non-specific.

The diagnosis of definite Behçet's Disease (BD) was ultimately made, based on the constellation of clinical symptoms: fever, fatigue, oral aphthous ulcers (two points), genital aphthosis (two points), and a folliculitis-like eruption (one point). The patient thus attained a total score of five under the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease (where a score ≥4 supports the diagnosis). Genital aphthosis, in particular, is highly indicative of BD, strongly supporting this diagnosis. Following the exclusion of infectious, neoplastic, and autoimmune conditions, the patient was diagnosed with acute neuro-Behçet’s Disease, given CNS manifestations in association with mucocutaneous involvement.

Treatment:

Upon admission (day 1), clinicians considered the possibility of an underlying inflammatory disorder, although its precise cause could not be determined at that time. After obtaining blood cultures, broad-spectrum antibiotics (cefepime) were empirically prescribed to cover potential bacterial pathogens, even though there was no clear evidence of a focal infection.

By day 3, the patient's headache and vertigo had intensified, raising concerns for inflammation or infection within the central nervous system. Empirical acyclovir treatment was initiated to address possible viral etiologies but was discontinued when diagnostic testing excluded HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On day 8, following a diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, colchicine therapy was commenced. Topical corticosteroid ointment was applied to manage oral aphthous ulcers, while silver sulfadiazine cream was utilized for genital and skin lesions. For SIADH, conservative management consisted of restricting fluid intake to less than 800 mL per day, closely monitoring serum sodium concentrations, and ensuring sodium correction was not performed rapidly. Neither hypertonic saline nor vasopressin receptor antagonists were necessary.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient's fever subsided and his appetite returned the day following the initiation of colchicine. Over the next two weeks, there was a progressive improvement in symptoms such as vertigo, general fatigue, hiccups, and mucocutaneous manifestations. By the 16th day, his serum sodium levels had reached a normal value of 136 mmol/L, and ADH concentrations had fallen to 1.8 pg/mL. Myogenic enzyme levels also normalized during this period.

Notably, systemic corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive medications were not administered during his treatment course. After a hospitalization of one month—during which acute symptoms resolved, hyponatraemia was actively managed, and physical rehabilitation was carried out to address deconditioning—the patient was discharged. Colchicine was continued for roughly four years post-discharge, with neither a relapse of BD nor a return of neurological symptoms throughout this period. Once BD stabilization was achieved, biguanide therapy was introduced, resulting in sustained glycaemic control.

Discussion:

This case is distinguished by the concurrent identification of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, an occurrence that is infrequently encountered in clinical practice. It also illustrates that SIADH may arise as a complication during acute neuro-BD. The improvement of mucocutaneous, neurological, and electrolyte abnormalities after administration of colchicine alone points toward a potential direct link among BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. In BD patients manifesting fever or headache in conjunction with hyponatraemia, physicians should maintain a high index of suspicion for acute neuro-BD as a possible etiology.

A particular feature of this report is the concomitant recognition of systemic BD alongside acute neuro-BD, based on the presence of both mucocutaneous lesions and central nervous system involvement. Normally, substantial organ complications, including CNS pathology, emerge approximately four years post-initial BD diagnosis, and presentations with neurological symptoms at onset are seen in less than 5% of cases. Headache attributable directly to neuro-BD is present in only around 10% of patients. Consequently, diagnosing neuro-BD at presentation, as occurred here, presents a significant challenge. Acute neuro-BD is classically characterized by a self-limited meningoencephalitic syndrome, either with or without localized neurological impairment. In this case, MRI of the brain did not reveal pathology at the conventional BD predilection sites such as the hypothalamic region. It is noteworthy that acute neuro-BD can manifest as aseptic meningitis even in the absence of structural brain lesions, and an unremarkable brain MRI, especially early in the disease process, cannot rule out the diagnosis. The absence of imaging abnormalities thus made diagnostic confirmation more difficult. While HLA-B51 genetic testing was undertaken, it did not assist in diagnosis, which is in accordance with international BD criteria that prioritize clinical assessment over HLA-B51 status. This case underscores the necessity of evaluating for neuro-BD in patients exhibiting mucocutaneous involvement alongside atypical or unexplained neurological complaints.

During the early stage of the differential diagnosis, we focused on infection as a potential etiology for CNS inflammation, prompted by the presence of fever of unknown origin, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia; nonetheless, no causative pathogen was detected. Alternative sources of CNS inflammation, such as connective tissue disorders and malignancy—including both sarcoidosis and haematologic cancers—were also incorporated into our differential considerations. Consequently, we conducted an initial comprehensive workup that included assessments of autoimmune serological markers, as well as serum ACE and sIL-2R levels, primarily as part of a screening strategy rather than owing to a high index of clinical suspicion. These tests were employed selectively as part of an exclusion process. Ultimately, neither clinical assessment, radiological imaging, nor CSF analysis supported any of these alternative diagnoses, and the ancillary investigations did not play a decisive role in reaching the final diagnosis. It should be noted that ACE is not particularly sensitive for identifying sarcoidosis, and while sIL-2R can be useful in evaluating malignant lymphoma, only minor elevations were noted, which are not specific and may merely signify an ongoing inflammatory response. Notably, the absence of genital ulcerations at symptom onset complicated the recognition of BD, thus necessitating an expansive differential diagnosis. This diagnostic journey underscores the risks of unselective diagnostic testing and reinforces the need for clinicians to pursue targeted investigations aligned with clinical indications, interpreting their results judiciously.

While cases of drug-induced SIADH have been described in individuals with BD treated with agents such as cyclophosphamide, the link between acute neuro-BD and the onset of SIADH is not well characterized. Neuro-BD involves inflammation within the central nervous system, which could play a role in abnormal antidiuretic hormone (ADH) regulation. Evidence from multiple investigations indicates that interleukin-6 (IL-6)—a proinflammatory cytokine commonly elevated during neuroinflammatory processes—is related to enhanced ADH secretion. In the context of BD, dysregulated monocyte activity is known to drive constitutive IL-6 production, and increased IL-6 concentrations have been identified in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients undergoing acute neuro-BD episodes. These observations raise the possibility that IL-6–driven inflammation is implicated in SIADH development under these conditions. In this report, direct measurement of IL-6 in either serum or CSF was not performed; however, the substantially increased serum C-reactive protein (CRP) level may indirectly indicate the presence of IL-6–mediated inflammatory processes. SIADH can occur in association with a variety of disorders, such as CNS inflammatory states, respiratory disease, neoplasms, and particular pharmacotherapies. Despite the temporal relationship noted here, the current evidence does not support a definitive causal relationship between SIADH and acute neuro-BD. Rather, the observed temporal correlation may point to a more general response to CNS inflammation rather than a pathogenesis unique to the underlying disease.

This case further demonstrates the range of complications associated with hyponatraemia resulting from SIADH in the context of acute neuro-BD. Prior literature has noted that persistent hiccups may be a significant indicator of severe hyponatraemia due to SIADH secondary to CNS inflammation, such as meningitis. Furthermore, our assessment included measuring CK levels in response to symptoms like fever, arthralgia, and general fatigue—manifestations that can indicate either inflammatory or metabolic muscle injury. This approach led to the identification of rhabdomyolysis, which, while recognized, is a frequently missed complication of severe hyponatraemia that is not typically screened for in routine evaluations. These symptoms, though described in the literature, are frequently underestimated in clinical practice as important sequelae of significant hyponatraemia. It is essential for clinicians to consider that seemingly unrelated presentations, such as hiccups or rhabdomyolysis, may point to underlying electrolyte imbalances, especially amid neuroinflammatory diseases.
------
===== NEW BATCH 12 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Corticosteroids remain the cornerstone therapy for acute neuro-BD, with the majority of patients experiencing significant clinical improvement. Nevertheless, there are documented instances of spontaneous remission, particularly among patients whose manifestations are restricted to meningoencephalitis-like presentations. In this report, the administration of colchicine as a single agent led to improvement in both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as correction of hyponatraemia. Colchicine mediates its anti-inflammatory properties by inhibiting neutrophil trafficking and activation and by downregulating the synthesis of cytokines such as IL-1β and IL-6. Although colchicine is extensively utilized to manage mucocutaneous lesions in BD, evidence from systematic reviews indicates its lack of efficacy in acute neuro-BD, for which immunosuppressive agents are typically necessary to achieve sufficient disease suppression. Indeed, previous cases have reported the use of colchicine only as an adjunct to corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants, and rarely as monotherapy. While the possibility of natural remission in our case cannot be definitively ruled out, our observations raise the possibility that colchicine could serve as a viable therapeutic alternative for acute neuro-BD and associated complications like SIADH, especially in situations where corticosteroid use is not feasible or is contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We reported an uncommon presentation involving the simultaneous onset of BD and acute neuro-BD, further complicated by the development of SIADH. This instance underscores the possibility of SIADH arising secondary to acute neuro-BD, emphasizing the necessity for clinicians to recognize this potential link. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in prompt resolution of both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms as well as correction of hyponatraemia, indicating that colchicine could serve as an effective initial therapy in neuro-BD. When encountering BD patients with non-specific central nervous system complaints such as fever and headache in conjunction with hyponatraemia, physicians should strongly consider the possibility of acute neuro-BD coexisting with SIADH.<|im_end|><|im_end|> it. This creates it, along with various other toxic irritants, to be gotten rid of from your system.

Throw Up with Toothbrush

Yes, you can use that tooth brush of your own to prompt on your own to vomit. This method is especially useful if the concept of sticking your finger down your throat does not match you. So, proceed as well as try scrubing your tooth brush versus the back of your tongue and also watch yourself throw up virtually promptly.

Why This Functions
The toothbrush triggers a trick response that generates you to throw up.

Throw Up with Think of Vomiting

Sounds weird, however it is true. Think about throwing up and also all points that make you unwell to force your body to throw up.

Why This Works
When you focus your mind on the sights, smells, and seems that make you unwell, it sets off queasiness as well as induces vomiting.

Throw Up With Egg Whites

Doesn’t the simple idea of that itself make you wish to vomit your guts out? It certainly did that to me. If just considering it suffices to make you barf, you are fortunate. For the others, different the white from the egg and also swish with it.

Why This Functions
This specific technique of ‘just how to make on your own throw up conveniently’ is really reliable in doing away with the toxins in your tummy. The smell as well as preference of raw egg whites are quite unpleasant and can create you to throw up virtually quickly (4 ).

Throw Up Expose Yourself To Unpleasant Scents And Also Sights

Also normal as well as healthy individuals will seem like throwing up if they are exposed to sickening and also undesirable sights, like enjoying somebody else throw up. If there is anything you understand that can create you to vomit, go for it.

Why This Functions
Unpleasant sights as well as smells can stimulate you to throw up, all many thanks to the neurons in your brain that reason you to come to be sick as a reflex activity to such stimulations (5 ).

Throw Up with Baking Soda

Exactly how To Make Yourself Throw Up – Sodium Bicarbonate Pinit

Mix a teaspoon of cooking soft drink in a glass of water and gulp it down.

Why This Works
Sodium bicarbonate (sodium bicarbonate) has been used to generate throwing up. One of the numerous adverse effects of eating too much sodium bicarbonate is nausea or vomiting and throwing up (6 ).

Throwing up is undoubtedly tiring. To assist your body recoup after a session of throwing up, you can comply with the pointers provided below.

Throw Up with Mustard Solution

Just blend a tsp or more of mustard in a glass of water and consume the solution in one go.

Why This Works
Mustard has natural emetic buildings and therefore, consuming it makes you upset as well as causes throwing up (7 ).

Do not make this a routine as mustard has high amounts of sodium and also is bad for your wellness when taken in on a regular basis in large doses. For this reason, consult your physician prior to you select this remedy.

Just how To Make Yourself Throw Up – Bloodroot Herb

Bloodroot herb is an additional remedy that can help you throw up. Simply blend some bloodroot powder in a glass of water as well as consume it.

Why This Works
Bloodroot, likewise known as bloodwort, is a plant that has actually been used typically to heal various wellness problems. Although this herb is of medical value, it is recognized to induce nausea and also throwing up (8 ).

Bloodroot is fairly poisonous in high doses. So, talk with your physician prior to attempting this.

Things To Do After You Throw Up

  • Take a hot shower.
  • Blow your nose to eliminate any kind of deposits of vomit from your sinuses.
  • Swish with a mouthwash to get rid of the pungent odor.
  • Sip on water to keep on your own hydrated.
  • Consume alcohol juices such as cranberry juice to remove foul-smelling breath or the bittersweet taste in your mouth, ginger ale to relax your belly, as well as Gatorade or ORS to rehydrate yourself.
  • As you are currently mindful, self-induced vomiting can have unfavorable impacts on your body if done repetitively. The negative effects that may accompany uncontrolled self-induced throwing up are discussed below.

Adverse Effects Of Throwing Up

  • Your body might become susceptible to vomiting.
  • Dehydration and also loss of electrolytes.
  • Your belly acid may deteriorate your teeth and mouth.
  • You might struggle with indigestion or even ulcers.
  • You might additionally establish an eating condition called bulimia.
  • Throwing up is absolutely no enjoyable. So, unless the situation absolutely requires it and it’s inevitable, do not opt to induce it. Prior to trying any of the remedies discussed in this post, it is necessary to understand if throwing up will certainly enhance your condition. Hence, consult your medical professional. If you continue really feeling unwell or uneasy, see your doctor quickly.

Be the first to comment

Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published.<|endoftext|>Photo: Depositphotos_254308012_s-2019A measles outbreak in New York city threatens to reintroduce a disease once declared "eliminated." The city has attempted to contain the outbreak by mandating measles vaccination, and some parents have sued claiming it violates their religious beliefs. Taking the significance of the public health emergency and religious beliefs into account when deciding what to do in these circumstances is difficult. It is too easy to dismiss religious claims as unscientific and foolish in the face of a measles outbreak, but even so, it behooves the parties to seek a compromise.


The Issue

Last week, a New York state court upheld a New York City Health Department emergency order requiring everybody working in five zip codes to be vaccinated against measles, which is a highly contagious virus that can cause fever and rashes. A recent outbreak in Brooklyn and Queens resulted in 359 confirmed cases, which, according to the New York Department of Health, was believed to have originated in the Orthodox Jewish community, although religious leaders have encouraged vaccination.

An organization called PEACH (Parents Educating and Advocating for Children's Health) spent the past few weeks attempting to convince parents not to vaccinate their children and spreading claims that the vaccine causes autism, a claim that has been discredited.

The Centers for Disease Control reported in 2000 that measles had been eliminated, or absent from continuous transmission in the United States for the prior 12 months, due to widespread vaccination ( However, travelers have unwittingly brought the disease back to the United States; thus, the public health concern in New York is that the spread of the disease could reintroduce measles to the United States and once again place the population at risk.

The Argument Before the Court

A lawsuit was brought by a parent, identified as C.F., on behalf of her minor children, raising "scientific, religious, and moral objections" to the vaccination mandate.

She argued that the vaccine (MMR) caused measles, but, in the words of the ruling, made contentions "completely unsupported by studies, medical literature law and regulation." The court also found an issue with an affidavit presented by C.F. from a doctor who opined that "the current measles outbreak is not a clear and present danger" but, in the words of the court, "failed to provide any basis for this opinion."

A religious objection was raised via affidavit stating that using the vaccine validated their religion but failed to provide any clergy statement or religious text to support the opinion.

Finally, the parent argued that it violated "accepted human rights principles" by forcing a medication. However, the court responded that "A fireman need not obtain the informed consent of the owner before extinguishing a house fire. Vaccination is known to extinguish the fire of contagion."

Compelling Interest

The vast majority of physicians and medical experts believe that measles vaccines are the best way to stop the spread of the disease. Courts have long held that a state may use the least-restrictive means to meet a compelling state interest in the safety of its citizens. The courts have largely left the issue of exemptions to state legislatures.

There are very few religious groups that, as a matter of belief, refuse vaccinations; in the New York case, the parent was unable to provide a clergy or religious text statement.

Failure to vaccinate can also cause harm to the larger community, including those who have genuine medical reasons against vaccination.

Although 47 states have laws that accommodate religious exceptions to vaccine laws, three legislatures, including California, West Virginia, and Mississippi, have repealed religious exemptions, leaving only medical exemptions in place. In most cases, parents seeking a religious exemption from vaccinations are acting at variance with the tenets of their respective faiths. Thus, it has primarily been addressed from a personal belief perspective, and religious exemption claims have primarily been considered a "loophole" or pretextual.

The recent emergency declaration does not specifically strike against New York's religious objection provision to the existing mandatory vaccination law. Public Health Law §2164(9) involves an exception from a larger vaccination mandate for school children. Specifically, §2164(9) states that: "This section shall not apply to children whose parent, parents, or guardian holds genuine and sincere religious beliefs, which are contrary to the practices herein required, and no certificate shall be required as a prerequisite to such children being admitted or received into school or attending school."

A Larger Religious Liberty Question

Freedoms are at their most vulnerable during emergencies. Defining a genuine religious objection requires an inquiry that courts have rightfully avoided. The United States was founded on concepts of individual rights, including religious freedom. The idea of individual dissent from collective religious expression or belief stands in stark contrast with the days of homogenous public religious expression when the church or the government would dictate what could and could not be believed. Limits on how far a state should be able to force a person to act against his or her beliefs to serve a greater good and the idea that the state can provide exemptions for certain religious beliefs does not mean that the state is establishing that religion.

Religious exemptions are present in many areas of law, including those that might increase the burden on nonadherents as working shift accommodations in holy day observance cases, religious garb accommodations, exceptions to the contraception mandate, or small business owner conscience exemptions. In almost all of these cases, a religious exemption is sought by a member of a religious minority whose beliefs or practices stand in stark contrast with those of the majority.

Taking the significance of the public health emergency and religious beliefs into account when deciding what to do in these circumstances is difficult. It is too easy to dismiss religious claims as unscientific and foolish in the face of a measles outbreak, but even so, it behooves the parties to seek a compromise. Such compromise on such a binary issue would not be as convenient as a needle prick but could involve more onerous accommodations such as quarantines or other efforts to maximize public safety while avoiding the vaccination itself.




Comments are closed

Sorry, but you cannot leave a comment for this post.

%d bloggers like this:<|endoftext|>The Art of Pole & Line Fishing

Fishing has always been an integral part of Maldivian living. It is more than just a mere source of income, but a way of life. It is part of our identity, and reminds us of our ancestral heritage as ocean dwellers and sea farers, exploring a mystical paradise, where home has always been close to the sea. As an island nation comprised of 99% water, the Maldives is heavily dependent on its oceans for its bounty, employment, trade, transport, and more recently, tourism.

Maldivians have been practicing pole and line fishing for centuries. Hooking one fish at a time, this is believed to be the most sustainable method of fishing in the world. Maldivian pole and line fishing exclusively targets skip jack tuna. It has no unintended by catch, and the method also spares juvenile fish, which ultimately contributes to the protection of fish stocks. Sharks, Manta Rays and Dolphins which are common victims of other forms of fisheries such as trawling are safe from pole and line fishing.

A typical day for a fisherman starts before the sun breaks over the horizon. Local dhonis set sail just before the light of dawn, making their way towards the open ocean. Just as the sun comes up, their work begins. Bait fish is thrown to attract the schools of skip jack towards the surface, and before long, the surface of the water bursts into frenzy. This is where the magic happens. Fishing Maldivian style is unique, and the skill exhibited by Maldivian fishermen is unrivalled anywhere else in the world. It takes split seconds for them to haul one in on their barbless hooks. As if magically, the fish gets released off the hook by a flick of the pole. The fish immediately gets placed in ice, and the line goes back in the water to hook another. The exhilaration and the pumping adrenalin during the whole frenzy keep the fishermen going, regardless of neither rough seas nor the ache on their wrists. It’s an endurance game. After hours at sea, as dusk sets in, the dhonis return to their fishing villages with the day’s catch. The life of a fisherman is tough, but it is embraced by the locals as a tradition that defines us as Maldivians.

Much of the fish caught serve as sustenance for the local communities, however, a huge portion of the catch is also exported globally, and is considered among some of the best tuna products in the world. Fisheries is the second largest industry in the Maldives, and in the last decade we have seen the industry take leaps in revolutionizing our tuna products, from the simple frozen tuna to a wide range of products focused on various markets. As times change, the products also took a turn to meet the needs of the modern Maldivian. Ready to cook tuna chunks pre-spiced and marinated, BBQ ready fillets or ready to cook traditional Maldivian curries are some of the products we commonly see in the supermarkets these days. We have also seen daring products being introduced to capture focused international markets. One of the most interesting products that was introduced include the tuna jerkies. Smoked, dried, and sliced into beautiful strips, these products were extremely attractive to international markets. Whether it is canned, frozen, dried or spiced, Maldivian tuna is something us locals cannot replace in our cooking. Even our neighbors in Sri Lanka would agree, where ‘Maldive Fish’ is present in many of their local delicacies, which would never taste the same without our humble tuna.

Crafting Travel Deals


Affiliated Partners<|endoftext|>Go Go Berlin

Electric Lives

Written by: TL on 02/09/2015 12:55:47

Since the release of their debut album "New Gold" in 2013, Danish retro rockers Go Go Berlin have rapidly been building a career that most bands from here can look on with jealousy, touring both the domestic and the international festival circuit and having songs gain entry into the closely guarded land of radio airplay. Based on our experiences with both their album and their live performances, however, the Aarhus-based quintet have earned every ounce of hype coming their way, and thus their follow-up album "Electric Lives" has been one to look forward to with considerable anticipation. And having been out for almost two weeks now, the album has shown itself as one of several commendable qualities, yet also one that shows a few signs of Go Go Berlin having had less time to stack up songwriting ideas before hitting the studio.

The album opens with a cinematic intro in the form of the aptly titled "006", which indeed sounds a bit like dramatic and sexy Bond-movie intro music. Towards the end, though, when a bit of vocalised melody comes in, the mood is twisted slightly over to a more Ennio Morricone-ish 70's Western-feeling that's going to stick around in the album's atmosphere. Other than the cinematic feeling though, Go Go Berlin's expression extends logically from the prior album: The band still figures as sort of a Danish alternative to Kasabian, similarly cherry-picking elements of old-school rock and shining them up with modern production quality and festival-size songwriting. Overall the sound has a nice and organic feel to it, so it sounds like you're listening to a living and breathing band, but the mix is crisp and clear as only state of the art production can ensure it.

The album shows its best side in its title track, as well as in "Kill Me First", "Kids" and arguably also "Purple Heart" and "You Are The Sun". The song "Electric Lives" has been out for a while as a single, and obviously works great in its hazy verse and the proggy, symphonic bridge, which does however make you wish the band would allow their records to get a bit heavier in such a moment, and that they would explore territory like this slightly more often. "Kill Me First" has both the reverberating signature riff and the mindless vocal hook to hypnotise a huge open air audience, truly bringing home the aforementioned Kasabian comparison, and all the while the Doors'-like organ sounds which characterise the band churn in the background and add to the vintage atmosphere.

When there's room to criticise "Electric Lives" as an album in comparison to its predecessor "New Gold", it is because it frankly lacks some of the diversity and consistency that the band's first album offered. The first four tracks here, although not without
------
 it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.<|endoftext|>As an artist, two types of intellectual property (IP) rights are of particular importance: copyright and design rights. An artist will also have moral rights to their work.

Copyright protects the following categories of original artistic work:

1.      a graphic work, photograph, sculpture or collage;
2.      a work of architecture being a building or model of a building; or
3.      a work of artistic craftsmanship.

These categories are relatively self-explanatory and cover works falling within the ordinary meaning of the words apart from ‘graphic work’ and ‘a work of artistic craftsmanship’, which require some further explanation.

A ‘graphic work’ is almost any visual work on a surface, such as a painting, map, etching, engraving, lithograph, woodcut or similar. The work has to be fixed on a surface, for example it has been held there was no copyright in the design of Adam Ant’s face makeup. The work will be protected irrespective of artistic quality, as will all other types of work in the first category except sculptures, which do require artistic merit in order to be protected by copyright.

A ‘work of artistic craftsmanship’ on the other hand does have to have some artistic merit and applies only to those items which are made by hand or individually, not to mass produced, identical items.

For example, hand-painted tiles, stained glass windows and wrought iron gates as well as the type of designer furniture made by Lord Linley would fall into this category, but not mass-produced furniture.

Design rights
An artistic work may also qualify for protection as an unregistered or registered design. This can be for the whole or part of a product.

Unlike copyright, a registered design gives the holder an exclusive right to make the design, meaning that they can take action against someone who infringes their design even if it is not copied.

An unregistered ‘design right’ arises automatically, but gives a lower level of protection than registering the design. For example, it only protects against a similar work if the maker of the later work has actually copied the design to produce it.

Ownership of copyright in artistic works and design rights
The general rule is that an artist will own the copyright and design rights in any work that he or she produces.

If you produce an artistic work in the course of your employment, any copyright or design rights in that work will automatically belong to your employer.  If you are commissioned to produce an artistic work as a commission then, unless there is any agreement to the contrary, you (rather than the commissioner) will own copyright in your artistic work, although the commissioner will own any design rights. The person commissioning the work will however have a limited implied licence to use the work without infringing your copyright for the purposes for which it was commissioned.

If you create an artistic work jointly with another person, you will each own copyright in your particular parts of the work if such contributions are distinct from each other. If such contributions are not distinct from each other, you will jointly own copyright in the work and will need consent from the joint author to exploit it.

Moral rights
Finally, an artist has certain moral rights in their works. This includes, among other things, the right to be acknowledged as the artist when the work is displayed in public and the right to object to derogatory treatment of the work.  Moral rights are personal to the artist, and cannot be assigned although they need to be asserted to take effect.  You can also be asked to waive your moral rights.

Content supplied by College of Law students at the Moorgate Centre supervised by Tim Harris of Bird & Bird LLP

Image: Hana Fujimoto, Big Hand Performance, 2017:<|endoftext|>The Benefits of Building an App for Your Takeaway

Having a custom mobile app for your takeaway business is something that you should consider thoroughly in 2020. Now that your customers have access to a broad range of high-spec technology, your job is to provide them with your own technology offerings that will simplify their food ordering experience with you.

Here are 6 reasons why building a DIY takeaway app for your business will help you to stride ahead of your competitors:

1. They save time
From a customer’s perspective, a mobile app for takeaway has the potential to shave off time in the actual ordering process. In peak restaurant hours, instead of having to wait on hold to speak to a member of staff over the phone, customers can simply order and pay on your takeaway app, then get on with their own tasks while waiting for the order to be confirmed.

2. They’re simple to build
When building a takeaway app using a DIY app builder, you can cut the difficult coding and development stages and focus simply on designing the interface of your app. If you’d rather not start with nothing, most DIY app building platforms provide you with several templates that you can adjust and amend to suit your preferences.

3. They encourage more spending
When ordering from your mobile app, customers are much more likely to spend more on takeaway foods than if they were to call you up and order from a menu. Having more time to ponder over the online menu will encourage customers to select items that they may not have considered in a speedy over-the-phone order.

4. They’re much cheaper to develop
DIY apps take away the costs of app development, which can set you back thousands of dollars. When using a mobile app building platform, you’ll only need to pay a small monthly fee to keep your app up and running. This tends to work out much cheaper than paying the full cost for a professional to develop your app from scratch, then maintain it on a monthly basis.

5. They encourage customer loyalty
One of the best things about making your own takeaway app is that you can tailor it to offer generous incentives to encourage your customers to make repeat purchases. If your customers spend over a certain amount on one order, you might throw in several extras free of charge. Alternatively, you might choose to have a loyalty program in place that offers free or discounted food items after so many consecutive orders.

6. They reduce the risk of mistakes
When customers call up to make an order, it’s often quite difficult for the server to understand exactly what they’re saying, and it’s common for mistakes to crop up from time to time. This is a sure-fire way to lead to a bad review, as to a hungry human, there’s nothing more disappointing than receiving something other than the food they were craving. The simplest way to reduce mistakes when ordering is to allow the customer to make their orders themselves on your business’ takeaway app.

Add a Comment
<|endoftext|>• Share on Tumblr

Child welfare is one of the most stressful careers of all, ranking up there with Dentistry, Paramedic Professionals, and Emergency Room medical personnel. Many agencies experience burnout and turnover rates that complicate continuity and quality of care. These rates directly reflect two basic factors: low compensation and very high stress associated with the work.

This course is a full-day, in-person training on factors associated with burnout and turnover, secondary trauma and compassion fatigue. The course, taught by a nationally prominent expert on organizational climate enhancement, is offered at your agency location and is presented in these sections:

  1. The nature and nurture of the child welfare agency. What makes the work so stressful?
  2. Just how back are the burnout and turnover rates? Why do some other agencies have lower burnout and turnover?
  3. Secondary trauma and compassion fatigue
    1. Definitions and examples
    2. Self-assessments
  4. Building Individual and Agency-wide strategies for lowering Secondary trauma and compassion fatigue
    1. Strategies for inside the workplace
    2. Strategies for outside the workplace
  5. Empowering loving self-care throughout the workforce: from case workers to CEOs

The course includes sensitive and safe interactive components that encourage participants to use observations, questions, and strategies to identify current challenges and create roadmaps for change that will work!  Background resources are provided.

This course is on sale for over 33% off during December 2017 and can be delivered at your agency anytime during the first half of 2018.

The sale price includes our trainer’s fee and all travel and training expenses. To get more information and secure this 33% off sale price, please contact us at info@DownsConsultingGroup.com by December 31, 2017.


  • Share on Tumblr<|endoftext|>capacitive distance sensor

I have a capacitive distance sensor that is used for THC (torch height control) for plasma or fuel/oxygen cutting. It consists mainly of a metal ring that is placed around the torch tip and moves a few millimeters above the sheet metal to be cut. The original sensor uses an analogue circuit and is sold for lots of money (~$400). I have the feeling that this could be done cheaper and better theese days, digitally and of course with a propeller.

The metal ring (see picture) has around 50mm inner and 80mm outer diameter. I measured the capacitance against the metal surface with an LCR meter. It's between 30pF when nearly touching the plate and 20pF when held 100mm above it. Of course the relation is highly non-linear but that's not the problem. It could be corrected easily with a lookup table.

I have a few ideas for the measuring principle:
1) RC decay. Because of the low capacitance this would need a very high resistance of >1Mohm to achieve reasonable resolution. I think near a source of lots of ionized particles (smoke from the plasma arc) this is not a good idea.

2a) build an LC oscillator and measure the resonant frequency. This can be done very easily with a counter. However, I don't know what influence the parasitic effects have. The ground plate can't be connected with a short cable as the sensor is moving long distances horizontally.

2b) do the same with an RC oscillator.

3) apply a high frequency signal with fixed amplitude and frequency and measure the AC current. If the frequency is high enough and the signal current is well above the leakage current this should work relativey independent of the ground impedance (length of ground return path). However, small HF AC currents are not easily measured accurately.

I know that capacitive sensors are used in scales with amazingly high precision. This is achieved by measuring differentially. The sensor plate moves between two reference plates, both capacitances are measured and the ratio is calculated. This way all unwanted effects like thermal expansion and drift of component values are cancelled out. In my situation this is not possible. But on the other side I don't need high precision. 0.1mm resolution and 1mm accuracy in the range 1..20mm and 5mm accuracy to 100mm distance would be sufficient.

Anyone who has a different idea or knows a schematic trick that could be helpful?

Of course, protection is important. In the case of a crash the arc (up to 200V and 300A) could hit the ring. The ring can be replaced quickly but the circuit should survive this. The arc current is DC so a T-filter with two high-voltage caps and a gas discharge tube (used for lightning protection) should do the job. The caps are effectively in series with the capacitance to be measured. If they are 1nF or greater their influence can be neglected.


  • Not knowing about them, I would worry about the high noise around a torch. Would a Ping-type ultrasonic sensor give enough resolution ? You could measure many many samples to get a running average.
  • I believe a torch is very noisy. But a capacitor as part of an oscillator creates a signal of only one frequency which can be isolated by a notch filter from any EM-disturbances
  • Sounds like a ping sensor would melt!

  • I'm guessing the torch position needs to be pretty accurate as well as it moves over the metal. I've got a cap distance sensor from Lion Precision on my desk right now that we are testing for some lab measurement applications and it has RMS noise in the 10-100's of nm depending on the range and model. Unfortunately their tech library does seem to say much about the signal conditioning approach. I'm wondering if they make an oscillator and tune it with a control loop? That could be too slow though.
  • ErNaErNa Posts: 1,400
    edited 2016-08-10 - 20:28:53
    What if the ring is split into two halfs. Both show an offset. As capacity goes one over distance, as long as the distance is relatively large, two oscillators should create the same frequency. Coming closer, one oscillator (the closer one) lowers frequency faster than the other, so the beat frequency goes up fast, what should be to detect simply
  • Heater. wrote: »
    Sounds like a ping sensor would melt!
    The ping can work at larger distances, so it wouldn't need to be placed near the torch. Plus it is intrinsically linear.

  • With a ping the speed of sound deviation with temperature near the torch would need to be considered.
  • There are reasons that none of the plasma THCs I've seen use ultrasonic sensors.
    * the cutting arc produces lots of hot air and smoke. Speed of sound changes with temperature and density of the gas.
    * to blow out the molten metal in the cutting gap compressed air or even special gases (nitrogen, argon...) are used. Changing "side winds" and turbulences are bad for ultrasonic devices and cause noise in the signal.
    * you can't center the measuring spot to the torch tip center unless you'd use a "ring" speaker or multiple sensors around the torch. Then you'd have to use an averaging or voting strategy. That doesn't work well, we already tested that. If you cut near the edge or corner of the sheet metal there's one or two sensors giving false signals or none at all. With the capacitive ring sensor you only get a small deviation.

    Noise is definitely a problem. The LC or RC oscillator approach would have the advantage that we could switch to a different "channel" (frequency range) by exchaning the R or L component if one channel is too noisy. Counting many periods (for example a 50..100MHz signal over a 10ms interval) also helps averaging out noise. BTW, an LC oscillator is a narrow bandpass filter by nature. An RC oscillator might be sensitive to overtone ringing depending on the type of circuit used.

    Method 3 should also give stable results if a good current measurment startegy is used. A wideband AC current meter would be useless because it would also measure the noise. But a synchronous rectifier locked to the oscillator frequency should cancel out all other frequencies (except for the even overtones). How do we build a good current measurement circuit with narrow passband? This is effectively an AM receiver. I'm not very good in designing HF circuits. Wasn't there an app-note about building radio receivers with the propeller somewhere?

    The THC uses a control loop to keep the torch distance constant even if the sheet metal is not perfectly flat or buckles up due to local thermal expansion. The nozzle normally moves a few millimeters above the surface. No higfh accurary is required but it would be good if the tip to workpiece distance could be kept within +/-10%. A sample period of 20ms or faster would be good to get quick response. (20ms translates to 1mm horizontal movement with 3m/min cutting speed).
  • BTW, most plasma cutting machines measure the arc voltage to "guess" the torch height. This is relatively simple (voltage divider) and works as long as the current, the gas flow, the cutting speed and the surface quality is constant and the electrode tip condition is good. However if...
    * the nozzle wears out and the gas flow rate changes,
    * the cutting speed can't be kept constant due to slow-down in corners,
    * oil, rust or dirt is on the sheet metal surface or
    * the electrode wears
    the THC needs to be re-adjusted (or deactivated at corners). A THC using a capacitive sensor doesn't have this disadvantages. It measures height inpdependently of the arc and even works when the arc is off (starting height before ignition) or if there's no electrical arc at all (fuel/oxygen or waterjet cutting).
  • I've re-read the Propeller Education Kit Labs article about metal detection. Now I think, all measuring methods using the C of the sensor in a resonant circuit is not usable. If a coin near a 2" wire loop has so much influence on the resonant frequency then a machine moving several meters over a big metal plate has even more. The parasitic L component of the ground return path changes much more than the capacitance to measure, I fear.

    So here is idea #4: Build a capacitive voltage divider out of the C of the sensor and a reference capacitor. Apply a square wave to the divider input and measure the AC voltage (via synchronous rectification) at the divider output. The square wave frequency should be well below the resonant frequency of the parasitic LC circuit, but high enough so that leakage currents don't disturb much. I'll try something between 100kHz and 1MHz. I think with a clever circuit the rectification can be done completely in software so that the input is purely linear and passive. This would avoid accidentally de-modulating RF noise or saturation effects (clipping if noise peaks are outside the DC input range).
  • What about an LVDT type sensor with a small caster on it? Trailing behind the torch it might survive. It should be very accurate, relatively cheap, and not subject to material changes.
  • An LVDT sensor (linear variable differential transormer) needs physical contact to the surface, I'd think. You'd either need many sensors around the torch or some complicated mechanics. Watch those videos to see why this won't work:
    The picture "Gleitring" at the top of the page shows the possible arrangement of multiple sensors. The two videos at the bottom demonstrate how the THC works and how a collision could happen.

    There is dross around the cut behind the torch. Small pieces fall out of the material and leave a hole. Medium sized pieces can tilt after being cut out. Please believe me that a contact-less distance sensor is superior to other methods and stop suggesting alternatives. Lets focus on how this could be implemented with a propeller.

    A ring shaped sensor has the advantage that it protects the torch. As soon as it touches the workpiece it signals "short circuit = infinite capacitance = zero distance". As consequence, the vertical axis motor moves the torch up as fast as it can. If this is not enough to avoid a collision then the torch mounting frame held by magnets or spring couplings detaches and triggers an emergency stop of the horizontal drives.
  • First trial:

    With the scope I get a stable signal from 730mV (distance 1mm) to 860mV (100mm). the difference is lower than expected because the input capacitance of the probe dampens the signal.


------
===== NEW BATCH 13 | input_ids shape=(2, 3912) | attention_mask shape=(2, 3912) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
The latest advances, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, are ushering in a new generation of 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). In this study, we present a novel 1-bit LLM called \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, which is characterized by ternary parameters \{-1, 0, 1\} for all weights. Remarkably, BitNet b1.58 attains parity with full-precision (FP16 or BF16) Transformer LLMs of comparable size and token count regarding both perplexity and downstream performance, while offering substantial gains in efficiency—drastically reducing latency, memory usage, computational throughput, and energy demand. Perhaps most significantly, our 1.58-bit LLM establishes a fresh scaling law and provides new guidelines for training future LLMs that do not compromise on performance while delivering considerable efficiency. In addition, it supports the development of novel computational paradigms and lays the groundwork for specialized hardware tailored to 1-bit LLMs.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

Artificial intelligence has recently experienced swift advancement in both the scale and effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs). These models have achieved outstanding results across various tasks in natural language processing. However, the escalation in their parameter counts has made practical deployment increasingly challenging, and it has sparked significant debate over sustainability concerns related to elevated energy demands and costs.

A viable solution to these issues is the adoption of post-training quantization techniques to compress models for inference~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. By reducing the bit-width of model weights and activations, quantization notably lowers memory overheads and computational expense for LLMs. While the field has moved from standard 16-bit formats to more compact 4-bit alternatives~\cite{gptq, awq}, post-training quantization remains an imperfect method, despite its extensive adoption within industrial applications of LLMs.

Advancements in 1-bit neural network architectures, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, offer a compelling avenue for lowering the operational costs of LLMs without compromising their efficacy. Traditional LLMs typically employ 16-bit floating-point representations (such as FP16 or BF16), and the most resource-intensive component is their extensive reliance on matrix multiplications. The predominant cost stems from floating-point arithmetic operations. In contrast, BitNet's matrix multiplications require only integer additions, leading to substantial reductions in energy consumption. Since power often dictates the ceiling of computational performance for hardware accelerators, these efficiency gains also translate into accelerated computation.

Beyond computational efficiency, the movement of model weights from off-chip DRAM to on-chip memory (for example, SRAM) represents another significant expense during inference. While increasing the size of on-chip SRAM can bolster throughput, it does so at a much higher price than DRAM. 1-bit LLMs, however, substantially minimize memory usage in terms of both required storage capacity and memory bandwidth relative to full-precision counterparts. This can greatly curtail both the time and expense associated with loading parameters from DRAM, thus enabling more rapid and efficient inference.

This paper introduces a notable 1-bit LLM design termed \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, in which every parameter adopts a ternary value from \{-1, 0, 1\}. The augmentation of a zero value extends the original 1-bit BitNet to an effective precision of 1.58 bits per parameter in binary notation. \text{BitNet b1.58} preserves all advantageous properties of the original BitNet, particularly the shift to a computation model that eschews most multiplications during matrix operations, offering substantial opportunities for further computational optimization. Its memory, throughput, and latency advantages over FP16 LLMs are maintained, and its energy profile remains consistent with its predecessor. Moreover, \text{BitNet b1.58} provides two noteworthy improvements: first, the incorporation of the 0 state enhances its representational strength by facilitating explicit feature selection within the weight tensors, which can lead to measurable gains in 1-bit LLM performance. Second, empirical results demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves parity with full-precision FP16 models regarding both perplexity and downstream task accuracy, beginning at a 3B parameter scale under identical training and model conditions.

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} derives from the BitNet framework, a type of Transformer architecture where the standard \emph{nn.Linear} operations are substituted with \emph{BitLinear} modules. The model is trained entirely from the beginning, employing weights quantized to 1.58 bits and activations quantized to 8 bits. In contrast to the initial BitNet, several adjustments have been incorporated, outlined as follows.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} To restrict weight values to the set $\{-1, 0, +1\}$, we utilize an \emph{absmean} quantization approach. This procedure rescales the weight matrix by its mean absolute value before rounding every entry to the nearest value in $\{-1, 0, +1\}$:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

The activation quantization utilizes the same methodology as that of BitNet, except that activations are not rescaled to the interval $[0, Q_b]$ prior to the application of nonlinearities. Instead, activations are adjusted within $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ for each token, thereby eliminating the necessity for zero-point quantization. This adjustment enhances simplicity and efficiency from an implementation and system design perspective, while empirical results demonstrate that any impact on model performance is marginal.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

The LLaMA architecture~\cite{llama, llama2} has become the standard foundation for many open-source large language models. Aligning with open-source developments, our construction of \text{BitNet b1.58} leverages components inspired by LLaMA. More precisely, we incorporate RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, rotary embeddings~\cite{rope}, and omit all bias terms. This compatibility ensures that \text{BitNet b1.58} is easily adoptable in popular open-source libraries (such as Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}) with minimal modification required.

\section{Results}

We conducted a comparison between \text{BitNet b1.58} and our re-implemented FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} models across multiple scales. Both model families were pre-trained on the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama} using 100 billion tokens to standardize experimental conditions. For evaluation, we measured zero-shot accuracy across several benchmark language understanding tasks, including ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. Additionally, we computed the validation perplexity on WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4} datasets to further assess model quality.

We also examined GPU memory consumption and inference latency for both \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58}. Measurements were taken utilizing the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} framework, which provides optimized GPU-based large language model inference. The Ladder~\cite{ladder} library’s 2-bit kernel was included for \text{BitNet b1.58}. The primary inference cost—runtime per generated token—was reported.

Table~\ref{tab:ppl} provides an overview of perplexity metrics alongside computational cost for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. At the 3B parameter scale, \text{BitNet b1.58} attains comparable perplexity to its full-precision \text{LLaMA LLM} counterpart while being 2.71 times quicker and requiring 3.55 times less GPU memory. Notably, the 3.9B version of \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves a 2.4$\times$ speedup, uses 3.32$\times$ less memory, and surpasses \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B in performance.

A comprehensive breakdown of zero-shot task performance is presented in Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot}. The evaluation adhered to the protocol in \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}}. The outcomes indicate that the accuracy differential between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} diminishes as model scale grows, with \text{BitNet b1.58} reaching parity with the full-precision baseline at the 3B parameter threshold. In agreement with the perplexity findings, \text{BitNet b1.58} 3.9B surpasses \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B on downstream tasks while imposing significantly reduced resource requirements. This establishes \text{BitNet b1.58} as a clear Pareto improvement relative to contemporary state-of-the-art language models.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

The study also expanded the model sizes to 7B, 13B, and 70B, with a corresponding assessment of computational cost. As depicted in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy}, both latency and memory usage exhibit a consistent pattern, where larger models benefit from greater speed-up. Notably, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B demonstrates a 4.1-fold speed improvement compared to the \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline. This acceleration stems from the fact that the computational overhead for \emph{nn.Linear} escalates with increased model size. Memory utilization mirrors this trajectory; although the embedding layer retains full precision, its relative contribution to total memory consumption declines as the model size grows. All measurements for latency and memory leveraged a 2-bit kernel, indicating further opportunities for cost reduction through future optimizations.

\paragraph{Energy}

We have additionally analyzed the energy requirements associated with arithmetic operations in both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. Our investigation centers on matrix multiplication, which predominates in determining LLM computational expenses. Figure~\ref{fig:energy} presents the breakdown of energy usage, showing that \text{BitNet b1.58} primarily relies on INT8 addition operations, whereas \text{LLaMA LLM} predominantly performs both FP16 addition and FP16 multiplication. Based on the energy model described in~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves a 71.4-fold reduction in energy consumed by arithmetic operations for matrix multiplication when using 7nm chips. We also report holistic energy expenditures for full model inference on sequences containing 512 tokens. The findings indicate that \text{BitNet b1.58} yields progressively greater energy efficiency gains relative to the FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline as model size increases. This improvement results from the enlarging proportion of \emph{nn.Linear} computations in bigger models, while the cost contribution of other components diminishes.

\paragraph{Throughput}

We assess the throughput capabilities of \text{BitNet b1.58} in comparison to the \text{LLaMA LLM} with 70B parameters, utilizing two 80GB A100 GPUs and employing pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe} to enable execution of the \text{LLaMA LLM} 70B model on this hardware. The batch size was incrementally increased until the GPU memory limit was reached, maintaining a sequence length of 512. According to the results in Table~\ref{tab:throughput}, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B accommodates a batch size up to eleven times greater than that of \text{LLaMA LLM}, yielding a throughput improvement by a factor of 8.9.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} introduces a novel scaling law linking model capability to inference efficiency.} Based on findings illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and \ref{fig:energy}, a correspondence can be drawn between certain 1.58-bit and 16-bit model sizes regarding performance and resource demands.

\begin{itemize}
    \item The 13B BitNet b1.58 model surpasses the 3B FP16 LLM in terms of latency, memory consumption, and energy efficiency.
    \item The 30B BitNet b1.58 outperforms the 7B FP16 LLM across latency, memory use, and energy expenditure.
    \item The 70B BitNet b1.58 exhibits better latency, memory, and energy metrics than the 13B FP16 LLM.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

Training token quantity critically impacts LLM outcomes. To examine the token scalability of \text{BitNet b1.58}, we trained a model with 2T tokens using the data strategy of StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, the leading open-source 3B model. Both models were assessed using a benchmark suite comprising Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}, with zero-shot accuracies documented in Table~\ref{tab:2t}. For benchmarks reporting both accuracy and normalized accuracy, their mean is used. StableLM 3b results at 2T tokens are cited from its technical documentation. The results demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} outperforms on every evaluated task, implying that 1.58-bit LLMs possess robust generalization abilities.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) has established itself as an efficient solution to reduce computational FLOPs in large language models (LLMs). Nevertheless, the substantial memory demands and significant inter-chip communication required remain obstacles to broader adoption and deployment. These issues are effectively mitigated by employing 1.58-bit LLMs. The decreased memory footprint minimizes the hardware resources needed for deploying MoE architectures and markedly lessens the volume of activation data transmitted over communication links. Ideally, this approach enables fitting the entire MoE model onto a single chip, thereby eliminating interconnect overhead altogether.

\textbf{Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs}

The capability to process long sequences natively has emerged as an essential requirement for contemporary LLM applications. A key bottleneck in long sequence inference involves the substantial memory utilized by KV caches. \text{BitNet b1.58} advances the support for extended context by compressing activation precision from 16 bits down to 8 bits, which effectively doubles the maximum manageable sequence length with unchanged memory resources. Furthermore, additional lossless compression is conceivable, possibly achieving 4-bit storage or even less with 1.58-bit LLMs—a direction we aim to explore in future research.

\textbf{LLMs on Edge and Mobile}

The introduction of 1.58-bit LLMs provides an opportunity to enhance the practicality of language models on edge and mobile platforms, which typically have stringent constraints regarding memory and computational throughput. These limitations often curtail both the capability and size of deployable models. Thanks to their lower memory usage and energy demands, 1.58-bit LLMs facilitate deployment on such devices, unlocking a range of use cases that were previously unattainable. This development substantially broadens the potential of edge and mobile computing by enabling more sophisticated applications for LLMs. Furthermore, the architecture of 1.58-bit LLMs is particularly well-suited for CPUs, the predominant compute unit in edge and mobile hardware, thereby permitting efficient execution of \text{BitNet b1.58} and maximizing performance gains for these platforms.

\textbf{New Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Innovations exemplified by~Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}} underscore the promise of developing dedicated hardware platforms—such as LPUs—tailored for LLM acceleration. Building on this momentum, we propose the design and development of new hardware and system architectures optimized for 1-bit LLM computation, taking advantage of the novel computational framework pioneered by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}.<|im_end|>
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: This article presents an uncommon instance of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) that was identified simultaneously with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), meeting the criteria for definite BD, and further complicated by syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). The patient, a man in his 60s, exhibited fever, headache, and a range of mucocutaneous symptoms including oral aphthae, genital ulcerations, folliculitis-like eruptions, as well as hyponatraemia. Diagnosis of BD was established on the basis of these mucocutaneous signs. Although brain MRI revealed no abnormalities, cerebrospinal fluid examination was consistent with aseptic meningitis, substantiating the diagnosis of acute neuro-BD. Laboratory evaluation satisfied the diagnostic benchmarks for SIADH. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in complete remission of the mucocutaneous, neurological, and electrolyte abnormalities, eliminating the requirement for corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive therapies. This case highlights a potential link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH, and emphasizes the necessity of recognizing coexisting neurological and endocrine complications at the time of BD diagnosis.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent, multisystem inflammatory condition marked by repeated episodes of oral and genital ulceration, uveitis, and cutaneous manifestations. Neurological complications, collectively termed neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), are observed in roughly 10%–20% of individuals and often manifest several years subsequent to the initial BD diagnosis. The acute form of neuro-BD commonly presents as meningoencephalitis accompanied by brain parenchymal lesions, frequently affecting the brainstem region. Concurrent presentation of BD and neuro-BD is rare, as neurological involvement typically appears later; nonetheless, when they occur together, clinicians must evaluate both cutaneous-mucosal features and neurological manifestations, such as headache, behavioral or psychiatric changes, and localized neurological deficits.

The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) represents a recognized etiology of hyponatraemia, frequently arising secondary to central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, malignancies, or certain pharmaceutical agents. Given that acute neuro-BD is driven by inflammation, patients may be predisposed to SIADH development. While SIADH has occasionally been documented among BD patients treated with agents such as cyclophosphamide, the incidence of SIADH directly attributable to CNS inflammation from acute neuro-BD in the absence of medication triggers remains insufficiently characterized.

We describe an unusual case in which simultaneous diagnoses of BD and acute neuro-BD were complicated by the onset of SIADH. This case underscores the need to recognize SIADH as a potential complication in acute neuro-BD, particularly when evaluating patients who present with ambiguous CNS symptoms in conjunction with hyponatraemia.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his 60s arrived at the emergency department, describing three days of symptoms that included fever, headache, fatigue, diminished appetite, continuous hiccups, and joint pain involving both shoulders and ankles. Additionally, he mentioned the presence of oral aphthae.

His past medical history was significant for type 2 diabetes mellitus, though he was not on any treatment regimen due to a lack of understanding about his disease and insufficient adherence to dietary and exercise guidelines. There was no family history of BD among his relatives. Social history revealed that he drank alcohol infrequently, did not use tobacco, had no recent travel, and reported no contact with animals or people who were ill. Occupationally, he was employed in metalworking, and he denied any recent sexual activity.

Upon assessment, the patient was awake but showed signs of tiredness. Recorded vital parameters included a temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure measuring 135/73 mm Hg, heart rate of 119 beats per minute (regular rhythm), respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute, and an oxygen saturation of 96% while breathing room air. The physical examination was notable for oral aphthous ulcers and folliculitis-like eruptions present on both the facial and truncal regions (see figure 1A, B, and C). Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examinations did not yield any abnormal findings. Manual evaluation of muscle strength demonstrated full power in both the upper and lower limbs. No peripheral edema was detected, and clinical assessment indicated a euvolemic state. The patient was subsequently hospitalized for further diagnostic work-up.

Investigations:

Upon admission, laboratory investigations showed significant hyponatraemia (124 mmol/L) and raised levels of creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein (CRP) (180 mg/L; reference, <3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (70 mm/hour; reference, <15 mm/hour). Renal function remained within normal parameters. The patient exhibited hyperglycaemia, with a plasma glucose concentration of 14.2 mmol/L, as well as an HbA1c of 8.2%, signifying inadequate glycaemic regulation. Screening for hepatitis B and C was negative.

Endocrine testing showed thyroid-stimulating hormone (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 (1.25 ng/dL; reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL), and serum cortisol (42 µg/dL; reference, >6 µg/dL) all within standard ranges. The patient’s serum osmolality was decreased (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg) whereas urine osmolality was markedly increased (900 mOsm/kg, reference, >300 mOsm/kg). Urinary sodium was also elevated (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), pointing toward a defect in free water clearance. Notably, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) was raised (22.4 pg/mL) despite the presence of hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia. Electrocardiogram findings were unremarkable, and imaging—including chest X-ray and CT scans of the head, chest, and abdomen—did not reveal any abnormalities. Collectively, these results were consistent with a diagnosis of SIADH.

By the third day, his headache and vertigo had intensified. Despite the absence of neck rigidity or cranial nerve deficits, central nervous system (CNS) inflammation was considered likely. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain demonstrated no notable lesions affecting the hypothalamus or any other cerebral regions (figure 2). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis identified a mildly raised opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), elevated protein concentration (0.97 g/L), and a mild lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). Cultures and assays of the CSF for bacterial and mycobacterial organisms, as well as for herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcal antigen, were negative. Cytological examination of the CSF did not detect any malignant cells.

Additional diagnostic assessments were pursued to rule out systemic diseases. Evaluation for sarcoidosis showed a lysozyme level of 5.1 µg/mL (reference range: 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme of 11.4 U/L (reference range: 7–25), both within normal limits. Screening for hematologic malignancy revealed an elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) at 704 U/mL (reference, 122–496 U/mL), while testing for human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 antibody was negative.

By the fifth day, he developed a painful ulceration on the scrotum (figure 1D). This, along with the presence of oral aphthae and folliculitis-like cutaneous lesions, pointed toward a systemic variant of BD. There was no pinprick hypersensitivity. Ophthalmic evaluation did not reveal any signs of uveitis. He was positive for HLA-B51.

Differential diagnosis:

At initial evaluation, the concurrence of fever, headache, general malaise, and hyponatraemia raised suspicion for either a central nervous system (CNS) infection or an underlying systemic inflammatory condition. Viral meningoencephalitis—especially etiologies such as HSV or VZV—was considered as the leading possibility. Yet, CSF analyses revealed no evidence of viral antigens or antibodies, ruling out these infectious agents. Bacterial meningitis was another differential, but was dismissed owing to the lack of neutrophilic dominance, only mild lymphocytic pleocytosis, and negative CSF cultures. Tuberculous meningitis was similarly discounted due to negative results from both acid-fast staining and tuberculosis DNA assays.

Primary CNS malignancy was also contemplated in light of the neurological presentation. Nevertheless, neuroimaging by brain MRI failed to detect pathological findings, and CSF cytological examination did not show malignant cells. Although there was a slight increase in sIL-2R, this isolated result was inadequate to confirm CNS lymphoma.

Assessment for autoimmune diseases yielded negative results as there were no typical systemic manifestations or serological markers on autoantibody screening. Neurosarcoidosis was tentatively considered since early-stage MRI can appear normal, but subsequent laboratory evaluation rendered this unlikely. The slight elevation in sIL-2R was ultimately interpreted as non-specific.

The clinical diagnosis was definite BD, grounded in characteristic clinical criteria: fever, fatigue, the presence of oral aphthae (two points), genital aphthosis (two points), and a folliculitis-like eruption (one point). Under the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease, these symptoms accumulated a total of five points, which surpasses the threshold (≥4) required for diagnosis. Notably, genital aphthosis is highly specific for BD, reinforcing this conclusion. Once infectious, neoplastic, and autoimmune etiologies were systematically ruled out, the patient was diagnosed with acute neuro-BD, characterized by CNS involvement against a backdrop of mucocutaneous findings.

Treatment:

Upon admission (day 1), clinicians considered an underlying inflammatory disorder, though its precise cause was uncertain. Empirical treatment with cefepime was commenced following the collection of blood cultures, aiming to address a possible bacterial infection even in the absence of an identifiable infection site.

By day 3, the patient’s headache and vertigo had intensified, raising concerns about potential CNS inflammation or infection. Acyclovir was empirically prescribed, but was subsequently discontinued when testing excluded HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On day 8, colchicine therapy was initiated after systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed. Topical corticosteroid ointment was applied to treat the oral aphthous lesions. Genital ulcers and skin lesions were managed using silver sulfadiazine cream. SIADH was addressed through conservative means, specifically fluid intake restriction to less than 800 mL/day, close daily monitoring of serum sodium, and the avoidance of rapid sodium correction. There was no need for hypertonic saline or vasopressin receptor antagonists.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient's fever subsided and his appetite increased the day after initiating colchicine therapy. Over the next two weeks, there was a gradual resolution of his clinical manifestations, such as vertigo, general malaise, hiccups, and mucocutaneous lesions. By the sixteenth day, his serum sodium had reached a normal value of 136 mmol/L, and his ADH concentration had decreased to 1.8 pg/mL. Levels of myogenic enzymes had also normalized.

Notably, neither systemic corticosteroids nor additional immunosuppressive agents were administered during the course of treatment. Following a one-month hospitalization—during which the patient recovered from the acute episode, received close monitoring and management of hyponatraemia, and underwent rehabilitation for impaired physical abilities—he was discharged. Colchicine was continued for around four years post-discharge, during which no relapses of BD or neurologic symptoms were observed. Once the patient's BD had stabilized, biguanide therapy was started, leading to effective maintenance of glycaemic control.

Discussion:

In this case, both systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed concurrently, a scenario that is rarely reported. Furthermore, it illustrated that SIADH may occur as a complication of acute neuro-BD. Notably, the resolution of the patient’s mucocutaneous symptoms, neurological disturbances, and hyponatraemia following treatment with colchicine alone implies a potential direct link among BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. Consequently, clinicians should remain alert to the possibility of acute neuro-BD as a cause when individuals with BD exhibit fever or headache along with hyponatraemia.

This particular case stands out due to the concomitant identification of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, substantiated by the presence of both mucocutaneous involvement and central nervous system symptoms. Generally, major organ manifestations such as CNS involvement appear a median of four years post BD diagnosis, and neurologic symptoms at initial presentation are observed in fewer than 5% of BD cases. Moreover, only about 10% of patients develop headaches that are specifically attributable to neuro-BD, which contributed to the diagnostic complexity in this instance. Acute neuro-BD usually manifests as a self-limiting meningoencephalitis, which may or may not be accompanied by focal neurological signs. For this patient, brain MRI did not reveal characteristic changes in the usual locations affected by BD, such as the hypothalamus. It is important to recognize that acute neuro-BD can initially present as aseptic meningitis without evidence of parenchymal brain lesions, and early-stage disease may yield normal MRI findings, further complicating diagnosis. HLA-B51 analysis was undertaken, but it provided no additional value in reaching a diagnosis, consistent with current international BD criteria that emphasize clinical assessment over genetic testing. This report underscores the need to include neuro-BD in the differential diagnosis when individuals with established mucocutaneous manifestations of BD develop vague neurological symptoms.

At the outset of the differential diagnosis, our primary consideration was an infectious etiology for the CNS inflammation, prompted by the presentation of unexplained fever, neurological deficits, and hyponatraemia. Despite this suspicion, no definitive pathogen was identified. Alternative sources of CNS inflammation, such as connective tissue disorders and neoplastic conditions, were also assessed, and the differential diagnosis included entities like sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancies. Consequently, our initial comprehensive assessment encompassed screening with autoimmune serological assays, serum ACE, and sIL-2R measurements. These tests were utilized as part of a systematic exclusion process rather than owing to concrete clinical indicators for specific diseases. Ultimately, there was no supportive evidence from clinical examination, imaging, or cerebrospinal fluid analysis to suggest these conditions, and these screening tests did not substantially aid the diagnostic process. It should be noted that serum ACE is not highly sensitive for sarcoidosis, and while sIL-2R may contribute to the assessment of malignant lymphoma, minor elevations are nonspecific and generally represent an inflammatory state. In this scenario, the lack of genital ulceration at the initial stage of symptoms complicated the clinical suspicion for BD, necessitating a wider differential. This diagnostic trajectory underscores the pitfalls of indiscriminate laboratory testing and underscores the necessity for clinicians to order investigations judiciously, guided by relevant clinical features, and to interpret such findings with due caution.

While drug-induced SIADH has been documented in individuals with BD treated with agents such as cyclophosphamide, the relationship between acute neuro-BD and SIADH is still not well clarified. Neuro-BD involves inflammation of the CNS, which could potentially lead to abnormal ADH secretion. Multiple investigations have indicated that interleukin-6 (IL-6), a proinflammatory cytokine commonly upregulated in neuroinflammatory states, is linked to augmented ADH release. In BD, inappropriate activation of monocytes triggers constitutive IL-6 secretion, and heightened levels of IL-6 have been observed in the CSF of patients experiencing acute neuro-BD episodes. These observations raise the possibility that IL-6–driven inflammation might play a role in the development of SIADH in this context. Although direct measurement of IL-6 in the serum or CSF was not performed in this case, the notably increased serum CRP level may serve as an indirect indicator of an IL-6–mediated inflammatory state. Despite SIADH being reported in association with a broad spectrum of conditions—including CNS inflammation, respiratory diseases, malignancies, and use of certain drugs—the evidence in the present case does not support a definitive causal relationship between SIADH and acute neuro-BD. The chronological correlation noted here may represent a non-specific reaction to CNS inflammation, rather than a mechanism unique to the disease.

This case underscores the possible adverse outcomes associated with hyponatraemia resulting from SIADH in patients with acute neuro-BD. Literature has previously highlighted that persistent hiccups can represent a significant clinical indicator of profound hyponatraemia induced by SIADH due to central nervous system inflammation, including cases of meningitis. Furthermore, creatine kinase (CK) was evaluated as part of the initial assessment of fever, arthralgia, and general fatigue, symptoms potentially indicative of muscle injury from inflammatory or metabolic causes. This assessment revealed rhabdomyolysis, which, although recognized as a complication of severe hyponatraemia, is frequently neglected and not routinely assessed. These symptoms exemplify established but commonly overlooked clinical consequences of marked hyponatraemia. Healthcare providers should maintain a high index of suspicion for electrolyte disturbances—especially hyponatraemia—when encountering atypical symptoms such as hiccups or rhabdomyolysis in the setting of neuroinflammatory disease.
------
===== NEW BATCH 14 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Corticosteroids represent the standard therapy for acute neuro-BD, with the majority of patients experiencing substantial improvement. Nonetheless, there have been instances of spontaneous remission, especially in cases presenting only with meningoencephalitis-like features. In the case under discussion, monotherapy with colchicine was effective in alleviating both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as correcting hyponatraemia. The anti-inflammatory properties of colchicine are attributed to its capacity to impede neutrophil movement and activation, as well as its ability to downregulate cytokine production, notably IL-1β and IL-6. While colchicine is extensively utilized in managing mucocutaneous symptoms in BD, evidence from systematic reviews indicates it does not yield significant benefit in acute neuro-BD, where more potent immunosuppressive drugs are usually necessary for sufficient disease control. Indeed, in published literature, colchicine is typically employed alongside corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants, rather than as a single-agent regimen. Although the possibility of spontaneous improvement in this patient cannot be entirely discounted, the outcomes observed point to colchicine as a potentially viable treatment alternative for acute neuro-BD and associated complications such as SIADH, especially in cases where corticosteroid use is not appropriate or is contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We reported an uncommon presentation where BD and acute neuro-BD were simultaneously diagnosed, with SIADH emerging as a complication of the neuro-BD. This observation underscores that SIADH can develop in the setting of acute neuro-BD and emphasizes the need for clinicians to recognize this potential relationship. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in prompt resolution of both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as correction of hyponatraemia, indicating that colchicine could be an effective initial therapy for neuro-BD. For BD patients who exhibit nonspecific central nervous system manifestations, such as fever and headache alongside hyponatraemia, clinicians should consider the possibility of acute neuro-BD, particularly when SIADH is present.<|im_end|><|im_end|> added to their arsenal. It works in isolation but begins to feel like a trope after it has come in for the chorus of a few songs in a row, eventually making it feel like the first bunch of songs are pretty much "Kill Me First and its somewhat paler siblings". Particularly "Famous Till The End" grows stale quickly despite a decent verse.

Things get more varied on the album's second half, which is both for the better and the worse. "Rest For The Restless" is a pretty forgettable ballad, and "Starlight / WDYW" hardly justifies its ten-minute length with anything to prevent the listener's attention from drifting. "The Party" has some allure, sounding like a happy-go-lucky Kings Of Leon-ish tune, "Purple Heart" finally introduces an upbeat pace while going for some near-kitsch sentimentality in the chorus, though, and "You Are The Sun" makes a better case as a ballad, with singer Christian Vium allowing his Steven Tyler-esque purr to slide up into some nice and airy falsetto notes.

All things added up, "Electric Lives" is a pleasant listen, which once more showcases Go Go Berlin's charismatic and swagger-filled retro rock sound, yet the songwriting is a bit more fifty-fifty than last time around. And while the level of simple catchiness is generally kept quite high, it is likely that only a handful of the songs will grow over time, which makes you think with a bit of regret on how some of these songs are bound to push off previously on-the-brink setlist inclusions like "Bad!" for instance. Go Go Berlin hardly falter with their second effort then, but considering their tight grip of things, it feels like they could be an even more interesting band if they dared to get a bit heavier while reintroducing some of the delicious diversity in song types that characterised their first album.

Download: Electric Lives, Kill Me First, You Are The Sun
For The Fans Of: Mando Diao, Kasabian, Razorlight, Rolling Stones
Listen: facebook.com/gogoberlin

Release date 21.08.2015
Mermaid Records / Sony Music Denmark

Related Items | How we score?
comments powered by Disqus


© Copyright MMXX Rockfreaks.net.<|endoftext|>This article examines critically the developments pertaining to the Cyprus issue in 2009. Turkish authorities gave genuine support to the Cyprus negotiations and insisted that a solution should be concluded and voted on in referendums in 2009. They considered it vitally important that the Turkish Cypriot side should stay at the negotiating table and the Turkish side should not be held responsible for the ongoing stalemate. Promising steps were taken regarding confidence-building measures while some progress was achieved in major issues. However, no agreement came out on the election of Turkish representatives by their people; the issue of property remained a Gordian knot and the sides continued to have contrary views on the 1960 treaties and Turkey’s guarantee. The Turkish government did not open its harbors and airports to the Greek Cypriot administration in 2009 since the EU promise of removing the isolation of the Turkish Cypriots was not fulfilled. Turkish leaders announced that Turkey would choose Cyprus if it was forced to choose between the EU and Cyprus.

Key Words

Turkey’s Cyprus policy, Cyprus negotiations, Turkey’s EU membership process.


In the recent history of the Cyprus question, the leaders of the Greek and Turkish Cypriots, Glafcos Clerides and Rauf Denktaş, respectively, met fifty- eight times by 2002 in order to try to find a comprehensive solution to the Cyprus question under the auspices of the United Nations, but they could not achieve any substantial progress. Feeling the need to intervene in the process, UN Secretary- General Kofi Annan submitted his plan to the sides on 11 November 2002. While the Turkish side failed to give an official response to the plan because of Denktaş’s health problems and the government change in Ankara, the Greek Cypriots stated that they saw the plan as a basis for discussion, but they could not accept it as it was. Some changes were made in the plan and it was resubmitted to the sides, but it could not be signed at the EU Copenhagen Summit on December 12 in spite of intensive pressures from representatives of the US, the UN and the EU. Denktaş and Clerides met eight times after the Copenhagen Summit, but technical committees could not be established and activated immediately as it was planned, so that the negotiations could not be elevated to the expected intensity because of the propaganda activities conducted by the Greek Cypriot side for the presidential elections on 16 February 2003. The negotiations process reached a further impasse when Tasos Papadopoulos, who criticized the Annan Plan harshly and accused Clerides of being too soft, won the elections. Kofi Annan came to Cyprus on February 26 revised version of his plan to the two sides and invited them to The Hague to receive their official responses. Annan also wanted the sides to promise to take the plan to the people in a referendum even if they did not reach an agreement on it. No agreement came out of the intensive negotiations between Annan, Denktaş and Papadopoulos on March 10 and the Greek Cypriot administration signed the accession treaty with the EU in a ceremony at Athens on 16 April 2003.

The Turkish government tried to revive the process at the beginning of 2004 so as not to be isolated totally in the international arena and to ease its EU membership process. Taking courage from the Turkish initiative, UN Secretary-General Annan had talks with the leaders of the Cypriot communities, Denktaş and Papadopoulos, in New York in February and submitted to them a two-page text to be responded to with just a ‘no’ or ‘yes’ answer. According to the text, if the two leaders could not reach an agreement before 22 March, Greece and Turkey would be invited to the process. If an agreement was not still possible after 29 March, referendums would be arranged for the last version of the Annan plan by both sides of Cyprus before 1 May. The two sides accepted the text and thus they consented to holding referendums even if an agreement was not reached.

According to the plan, the number of Turkish and Greek soldiers on the island would be reduced to 6000 in 2011, to 3000 in 2018, and ultimately Turkey and Greece would keep 650 and 950 soldiers, respectively, on the island. The Turkish Cypriot territory would be reduced from 36% of the island to 29%. Güzelyurt and its surrounding area would be left to the Greek Cypriot administration and Karpaz would stay in the hands of the Turkish Cypriots. The number of Greek Cypriots who would return to their homes in the north would not exceed 18% of the Turkish population for the next 19 years. When Turkey became an EU member or after 19 years had passed, all limitations would be removed. The Greek Cypriots having homes in the Karpaz region would return to their homes without any restrictions. The lands which would be left to the Greek Cypriots would be transferred to them in six phases over forty-two months. The restrictions regarding the Greek Cypriot purchase of property from the Turkish founder state would be removed when the per capita income of the Turkish Cypriots reached 85% of Greek Cypriots’ per capita income or at the end of 15 years. The election of senators would be made according to ethnic origin rather than citizenship in order to not harm the balance in the Senate, which was designed to be formed by 24 Turkish Cypriots and 24 Greek Cypriots. However, in the Council of the Presidency, citizenship not ethnic origin would be used as the criteria. The federal government would consist of 3 Turkish Cypriots and 3 Greek Cypriots; there would be 4 Greek Cypriot MPs and 2 Turkish Cypriot MPs in the European Parliament and, in the first period, presidency and vice presidency would alternate between the sides every ten months in the Council of the Presidency, which would be formed by 6 Greek Cypriots and 3 Turkish Cypriots. In the following period, the presidency would be undertaken by the Greek Cypriots for 40 months and then by the Turkish Cypriots for 20 months. Decisions of the Council of Presidency would have to be approved by at least one Turkish Cypriot member and the sides would not be able to dominate each other. The 45,000 Turks who came to Cyprus after 1974 would continue to stay on the island and the rate of Turks who could immigrate to Cyprus would not exceed 5% of the population on the Turkish Cypriot side. In the referendums held in April 2004, the plan was ratified in the north at a rate of 65% whereas the Greek Cypriots rejected it at a rate of 70%.

In the immediate aftermath of the referendums, the EU issued a declaration stating that the EU Council was determined to support the economic development of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which demonstrated its willingness to join the EU. The declaration advised the release of a financial aid package of 259 million dollars appropriated for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) and the EU Commission was urged to start the necessary work to develop comprehensive economic projects for Turkish Cypriots. In the EU Summit of December 2004, Turkey was given a date for the start of accession negotiations, but it was also reminded that it had to extend its customs union with the EU to the Greek Cypriot administration and withdraw its soldiers from Cyprus.

In line with its policy of solving problems with the neighbors and creating a security belt around Turkey, the AKP government of Turkey has been insisting since 2004 on finding a solution to the Cyprus problem and, therefore, it has faced fierce accusations at home that it has undermined Turkey’s vital interests in Cyprus. In 2009, AKP leaders who are rightist- conservatives gave strong support to the actions, attitudes and views of the leftist statesmen of the TRNC on the Cyprus question. Therefore, in this article, the concept of ‘Turkish side’ is used in a way to include both Turkey and the TRNC. Evaluations and analyses in the article are related mostly to the events of 2009. In this article, developments related to the Cyprus talks of 2009 are discussed with a special emphasis on Turkey’s stance on Cyprus and Turkey’s Cyprus policies are analyzed in connection with the EU’s role and attitude in the Cyprus issue.<|endoftext|>Friday, May 02, 2008



And you thought I was normal, didn't you? Ha!



Who ever said love is easy?







Paddling, Wining and Dining on the Other Eastern Shore




I'd much rather it's a case of plain, ordinary homesickness.


Anonymous said...

I have not been enough places to feel homesick for anywhere. I did like Monterey when I was there, tho. It is very scenic and I've got some memories of good times there so that has been somewhere I have wanted to visit again.

Great link, loved the pictures. I can see why you would be homesick for a place like that.


Anonymous said...

Oh, yes, there is place I yearn for. Especially when it rains.

Dru said...

You are definitely normal.

It's a beautiful place and I can see why you're homesick for it.

I hope your Friday is a good one.

Marianne Arkins said...

I yearn for HOME -- California. I miss it more than I thought possible.

I always think of Misty of Chincoteague, one of my fave stories as a child, when I hear of the islands.

Anonymous said...

Mexico. I vacationed in Mexico and I have always wanted to go back.

Sue W.

Melissa McClone said...

Hugs Sarita! I can't wait to check out the link.

For me it depends on what's going on. But San Francisco will always be home. I loved living in the City. It just wasn't the place we wanted to raise children, but both hubby and miss it. A lot.

Anonymous said...

I miss Hyden, Wave Rock, and I haven't lived there for 25 years! Yep, really miss it and all my friends. I've never really settled into city life.

Aussie Jude<|endoftext|>The Adopted review (DVD)

The Adopted is the story of Marine, Lisa, and their mother Millie. Millie adopted Marine at an early age, and the two adopted sisters Marine and Lisa have been almost inseparable since then. So when Marine falls in love it changes the balance of the relationship between the three forever, becoming strained and difficult. Then when disaster hits, they have to figure out how, if at all, they can repair their bond.

I should probably explain two factors that were hugely important prior to my viewing of The Adopted.

Firstly, without knowing anything about the film, other than its country of origin, I presumed it was a horror film, just because of it’s name. It is not, and in fact could not be further from it.

Secondly, I have something of a love/hate relationship with French cinema, sometimes it is wonderful (La Haine, A bout de soufflé etc), and sometimes it’s awful (the majority of what’s left, a big statement I appreciate, and acknowledged as a sweeping generalisation), often far too knowing and far too pompous to be likeable. There are often main characters that come across as smug, and generally repugnant, and a stylistic approach which always seems to prioritise style over substance. This is not a diatribe about French culture incidentally; I am a great admirer of French food, music, and their laissez-faire attitude towards a lot of the smaller problems that we tend to obsess about here in Britain, just not their cinema.

Having said that, The Adopted is a reasonably entertaining, if not slightly saccharine affair. While it would be unfair to describe The Adopted as a ‘chick flick’ (it takes itself far too serious for that) it is an incredibly melodramatic film, and although the characters are intriguing, and the relationship between Marine and Lisa is engaging, they often come across as sniping and bitching at each other over issues that really would be easy to fix with a little common sense. I appreciate  this is for dramatic effect, but it doesn’t ring true, despite the attempts to tell what is intended to be a simplistic story about family dynamics. Laurent is excellent as Lisa, the sister who feels abandoned by the very girl she has, from her perspective, spent her life looking after (though Lisa does already having a child, so presumably had already had her own love-life drama, which makes it strange that her sister falling in love is such a big deal). Denarnaud puts in a good turn as the adopted sister torn between love and family, while Menochet is decent as the boyfriend who although seems dashing and loving, has a streak of poison about him.

Laurent who may be recognisable for her excellent turn in Tarrantino’s Inglorious Basterds, is not only starring in, but also making her directorial debut with The Adopted, and she does show promise, especially in the pacing of the film, which remains fairly steady throughout. Her grasp of how to frame her characters to get the most from them (be it through lingering reactions, or body language) is excellent, and she certainly seems to have a bright future as a director based on this evidence.

It is the script that lets the film down though, as the characters are really quite one dimensional, never really taking on any sort of depth, despite the actors best efforts, and making the whole scenario feel very artificial. It feels as though with another draft of the script it could have been excellent, but it seems almost as though it was rushed into production.

The Adopted is an entertaining melodrama, and Laurent does well in trying to make a film that deals with every day, quasi ‘kitchen sink’ drama, but inevitably it falls flat, and whilst perfectly acceptable does very little to distinguish itself from other films in the genre. It avoids the flaws I mentioned previously that often ruin French cinema for me, but it still feels as though it isn’t everything it could have been.



Leave a Reply




No one has commented on this page yet.
<|endoftext|>Digitalization today is at its peak. Nothing is left untouched by it. Nonetheless, it has not only helped millions of businesses reach their success zenith, but it has also transformed our way of living. 


Check this video to know what questions you need to clarify before you start building your mobile app:

The mobile app is one such wonder in the era of digital technology that has actually helped in making all the trade activities easier and simpler. Having an offline business limits your reach to a certain group of customers. But having an online presence is something that matters the most. 


Yeah! You got me right.


You need to get a business app soon if you haven’t yet thought of it. If you are wondering how to create an
------
 even without the plasma arc. I think I have to try out a real ADC.
                  mov CTRA,modeAdc
                  mov FRQA,#1
                  mov DIRA,maskOutFb
                  mov t,CNT
                  add t,time1us
                  mov l,loopCnt
                  mov dcnt,#0
                  waitcnt t,time1us
                  sub dcnt,PHSA
                  mov OUTA,maskOut
                  mov PHSA,#0
                  waitcnt t,time1us
                  add dcnt,PHSA
                  mov OUTA,#0
                  mov PHSA,#0
                  djnz l,#posOut
                  wrlong dcnt,PAR
                  jmp #adcLoop
    time1us       long      80
    modeAdc       long      %01001<<26 + pinFb<<9 + pinIn ' POS w/ feedback counter mode
    maskOut       long      1<<pinOut
    maskOutFb     long      1<<pinOut | 1<<pinFb
    loopCnt       long      10000                   ' 20ms = 10000 * 2µs
    427 x 309 - 4K
  • ManAtWork wrote: »
    First trial:

    Would you be opposed to buffering with an instrumentation amp, low pass filtering, then amplifying the output so you have a larger output voltage range? If you put the buffer amp pretty close you might kill a bunch of the common mode noise when the torch is on.
  • I think the reason for the noise is not the low signal level but from the imperfect design of the sigma-delta ADC with synchronous rectification in software. Each time the square wave changes state an unknown amount of charge in the 1nF capacitors is carried over to the opposite phase of the add/sub to dcnt.

    And IMHO an instrumentation amp does not help much in this special situation. The ground level of the sensor capacitance is meters away from the ground of the circuit and a large current (>100A!) flows through the machine base so we have a real awful ground-bounce. But any offset or common-mode noise does not hurt as long as the frequency is not equal to that of the square wave.

    We must also be careful that the input amplifier is not saturated by noise spikes. Example: there is a +10V 1µs spike followed by a -5V 2µs spike. They would normally cancel out each other to an average of zero. But if the higher positive spike gets clipped away by input range limitation the resulting average (low pass filtered) output is different from zero. Therefore I'd like to put the passive filter before any input amplifier.

    Because of the low sensor capacitance and the high input resistance the whole thing is very sensitive to HF noise. The sigma-delta ADC has the advantage that it virtually has a current input and no voltage input. the two 1nF capacitors form a low pass and are clamped to an almost constant voltage level by the counter feedback.
  • A capacitive sensor can work with gas/oxygen cutting, it cannot possibly work with an arc welder, don't
    even think it! That's a harder detection problem than direct imaging of ex-planets I suspect...

    An inductive proximity sensor would be more robust, but still probably out-matched by a heavy nearby arc.

    Sub-mm radar then suggests itself (does such technology exist even? Unclassified I mean)

    My vote is for something like a ceramic spring loaded physical probe or probes. You can get zirconia ball bearing
    races these days, high tech material in a low-tech sensor.
  • Mark_T wrote: »

    Come on! Difficult does not mean impossible. I know that it can be done. Why? As I said in the first post: I own one that works. Anybody who does not believe can buy one here: Look at the pictures, watch the videos. And I've been in Turkey personally back in 2005 and saw an earlier version with my own eyes. It works, believe me.

    If noone here can help me, I'll do it the hard way, tear that thing apart and reverse engineer it.
  • It is a difficult problem - for a one-off the ~$400 might not be a bad deal comparing the amount of time it will take to work out the kinks/reverse engineer. Without knowing more details about the RFI environment and some test data it's just hard to know.
  • Yes of course, I wouldn't reverse engineer it just to save $400. I don't have to anyway. As I said, I already own one. But I have a customer who sells 30 plasma cutting machines a year. That's $12,000.
  • rabaggettrabaggett Posts: 96
    edited 2016-08-16 - 09:59:05
    Mark_T wrote: »




    I've seen capacitive sensors on the flame cutters. 1500 amp Plasma cutter uses a physical switch to find the initial position, then retracts it and sets Z to maintain constant voltage across the arc. (Underwater)

    In a pinch, I made a sensor out of a 556. One side as a free running oscillator (It will work with surprisingly low capacitances if you charge/discharge using a resistor from the output), and the other in the classic 'tachometer' arrangement triggered from the oscillator to give an approximation of 5-8V signal for distance. Don't use the Cmos version, it doesn't work well when operating the capacitor from the output. It can be located on the head to minimize cable capacitance.

    Of course, you could just use a 555 and count the frequency also. much more resistant to noise.

    I've made some amazing measurements from free running oscillators in a 556. One coupled to the measurement, and one with a reference capacitor running at a frequency somewhat removed from the expected range of measurement (They will 'lock' if frequencies get too close) Count the freqs with the Prop, and compensate for temp etc by the drift of the fixed oscillator.

  • Ok, agreed, the simplest solutions are sometimes the best. I could also replace the old 555 with an equivalent circuit of low leakage analogue switches and a high precision comperator to improve drift. A possible disadvatage of an RC oscillator is that it always triggers earlier if there is noise interference, so the frequency tends to become higher and the error is not averaged out by counting over a longer time period.

    I have opened the Agelkom sensor. No complicated circuits inside. Only one LM339, several transiostors, voltage regulators and pasive components. There is a coil near the BNC connector that looks like the adjustable filters in older radio receivers.
  • I've just made a test with the folowing circuit:
    It's the capacitive voltage divider aproach with synchronous rectification in hardware, this time. The switch is a 74HCT4053. The two outputs go to sigma-delta ADCs implemented with propeller counters with feedback.

    Now, I get very stable results with very little noise.
    1298 x 690 - 45K
  • Any idea what a rough calibration/sensitivity is?
  • Err, sorry, I don't understand the question.

    Surely, I'll need some calibration. The capacitance to distance relation is non-linear by nature and there's an offset depending on cable length and mechanical arrangement. I hope there's not much temperature drift as the circuit is differential and any drift phenomenons should affect both channels equally.

    I plan to implement some auto-calibration procedure. Maybe something like this: Place the sensor 1mm above the material, press a button. Increase the distance to 10mm, press another button. Repeat for 100mm. The propeller calculates a plynomial interpolation table and stores it in the EEPROM.

    Absolute accuracy is not that important as long as the results are repeatable. The optimum cutting distance has to by found experimentally, anyway.
  • You may want to decrease the step size and increase the number of steps to at least 5. When I was calibrating instruments the usual step sizes were 0, 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 percent of of full scale.
  • @ManAtWork I was just curious as to how small of a distance change you were able to reliably resolve. The calibration set @kwinn proposed works pretty well for sensors that are linear. Depending on what the curve looks like for this, you may have to do dense spacing in certain areas and less dense in others. Maybe a 0, 20, 40, 60, 80, 100% of full scale would even be enough.
  • hi,
    Are you finished this project? Do you have a commercial version?
  • Umm, no, unfortunatelly not. My friend and "test customer" has moved and sold his plasma machine. :-(
Sign In or Register to comment.<|endoftext|>Can litecoin overtake bitcoin?

Can litecoin overtake bitcoin?

Listed under are the highest Litecoin predictions, which you need to use as a starting point in your research to help you perceive the market higher. However, you could mine Litecoin with a traditional computer, simply by adding a couple of graphical processing units (GPU). So, when you decide you wish to personal Litecoin but don’t wish to purchase it on an trade, you would possibly need to take into consideration mining it. In the case of our regular foreign money, federal banks can print new notes to increase the availability of currency. This just isn’t the case with cryptocurrency as there isn’t any authorities that may “print” more coins.

As I explained in the coffee example, Litecoin’s technology can course of transactions faster than Bitcoin. Think of it because the working system update that you simply receive in your smartphone. Just like an replace aims to enhance a number of the issues together with your smartphone, Litecoin goals to fix a number of the problems with Bitcoin. This is why it’s tremendous necessary to make use of a wallet where you have full management over your crypto.

litecoin vs bitcoin

If we imagine that John McAfee’s prediction for Bitcoin is right, then who’s to say that he is wrong about Litecoin. However, additionally it is true that Litecoin may be losing some of its advantages which relate to mining and costs.

Why you should not buy Bitcoin?

Reason Number 1: The price of bitcoin is prone to a massive drop from time to time. Bitcoin (and other cryptocurrencies) have witnessed more than 80% drop in their value on the market. This has happened to bitcoin about 3 times. Although, over time, the price recovers and hits another all-time high.

So, as soon as you could have purchased Litecoin on Coinbase, you need to send it to a secure pockets. For example, the Bitfloor change had its servers hacked in 2012, with the hackers stealing greater than 24,000 Bitcoins. A related assault occurred to the favored trade Poloniex, the place they’d 12% of their Bitcoins stolen.

Just how Bitcoin is usually in comparison with gold and Litecoin is commonly compared to silver…what can we do with gold in actual life?. Similarly, Bitcoin might be used for storing worth, while Litecoin will be used for transacting. There are many predictions that say Litecoin’s progress will be larger than that of Bitcoin.

Nobody actually is aware of what’s going to occur, however listed here are some good reasons as to why there are predictions like these. Another sort of analysis, referred to as the “Monte Carlo” analysis, has been performed on Litecoin. What it predicts is a price vary of $6 to $507 for Litecoin up to November 2019.<|endoftext|>Tagged: vertigo

Do You Have Rocks Loose In Your Head?

August 15, 2016


This relatively common balance error occurs when a person puts his or her head in a particular position, which sets in motion a series of events that to some, can have quite debilitating results. It can occur with just lying down in bed, turning in bed from one side to the other, lying back in the dentist’s chair or at the hair salon for a shampoo. The vertigo can make you very nauseated and if you happen to be standing, it can cause you to fall and hurt yourself.

When a person’s head is in the “trigger position” for a short period of time, a quick spinning sensation occurs that can come on quite violently or if you’re lucky, only mildly. This lasts for 10-20 seconds as long as the position is maintained. If the person changes position, the dizziness will begin to subside but returns again when turning back to the offending position.  The clinical name for the disturbance is, “Benign Paroxysmal Positioning Vertigo” or BPPV. It can also be described as, “having rocks loose in your head”! This is true because the error that occurs in the balance system is produced by small crystals landing in areas of the inner ear where they shouldn’t be.

The inner ear balance system or vestibular system is a matched pair, one in each ear and is made up of two different sensory mechanisms. One system is made up of 3 semi-circular canals that are full of fluid with a gate at the end of each canal.  It gives your brain information about the direction your head is moving. As your head moves, the fluid in the semi-circular canals moves as well.  This causes the gates to swing open triggering a signal that is then transmitted to your brain. The brain responds by sending a signal to the muscles in your eyes to make a corrective eye movement in concert with the head movement.  This is an automatic response and cannot be voluntarily shut down.

Another system located in your inner ear is called the otolith organ and it can be simply described as a bed of jello with small calcium carbonate crystals embedded into it.  At the base of this jello-like material are sensory trigger cells. This system tells your brain about the speed of your head movement in space.  Each system works to tell your brain and then your eyes about the direction and speed of your head movements. They work at a very high speed and are sensitive to miniscule body movements.

The problem comes when the crystals are disturbed and begin to slough off in great numbers. The crystals then migrate over time and end up piling up against one of the gates in the semi-circular canals. This is where the fun begins. When these rocks are in the wrong spot and you happen to put your head in the “trigger position,” the crystals hold the gate open too long and tell your brain that you are still moving when in fact, you’ve stopped. The brain believes your vestibular system over everything else and tells your eyes to make a corrective movement based upon bad information.  This causes the eyes to keep moving and therefore create a spinning sensation. This can create quite a stir, literally, as 80% of sufferers report experiencing nausea and disorientation.

The good news is that this disturbance can be fixed by performing a very specific physical therapy maneuver. Research tells us that 75% of patients report no further symptoms after one treatment. Of those who continue to have spinning sensations after the first treatment, 85% are cured after the second treatment. It is rare that BPPV cannot be cured by physical therapy.

If you think that you or a loved one might be experiencing BPPV, we can help! A simple test in our office can identify which canal is causing the problem and then we will refer you for treatment. Call our office if you have questions about this or other balance disturbances.

Be informed of the effects of medication on hearing and balance

January 4, 2016

Before altering or discontinuing the use of any prescribed medication, consult your physician.

Heartburn, nausea, confusion, diarrhea, dizziness, drowsiness, hearing loss, ringing in the ears, blurred vision, loss of coordination; mood or mental changes: these are some of the possible side effects of…Aspirin. That’s right; not a toxic cancer drug or a drug used for some obscure disease but one of the most commonly prescribed and over-the-counter medications used to treat pain. It shouldn’t be surprising that many commonly prescribed medications are potentially hazardous to the ears. As we learn how to improve and prolong life with amazing scientific breakthroughs in pharmaceuticals, we must also be aware that the medications being offered may cause other health issues. As an audiologist, my concern is with the possible increase in hearing and/or balance disturbances that these medications can cause and making my patients aware of these potential side effects.

Every physician uses the Physician’s Desk Reference (PDR) as part of their arsenal in deciding which medication to best prescribe for their patients. The PDR contains a description of many of the medications available today including their uses, dosages and of course, side effects. Here’s the interesting thing: more than 300 (of nearly700) of the side effects listed in the PDR can influence hearing and/or balance function. Some of those side effects include:

• Hearing loss
• Hyperacusis (sensitivity to sound)
• Blood pressure increase
• Water retention
• Tinnitus (ringing in the ears in the absence of sound)
• Roaring in the ears
• Vertigo (a sensation that the world is moving)
• Capillary fragility

Some of these side effects relate directly to hearing and balance. Others might be less obvious to the casual observer. For example, “capillary fragility” can prevent the tiny structures in the inner ear that are vital to hearing from receiving the nutrients and blood supply they need. A lack of oxygen and nutrition leads to lack of function and possibly to cell death. This in turn, can cause hearing loss and/or dizziness that can sometimes be a permanent change. Medications that affect the amount of fluid in your body can also wreak havoc. The fluid-filled hearing and balance structures of the inner ear normally function independently of the body’s overall fluid/blood system. The fluid (called endolymph) that bathes the sensory cells of the inner ear, however, must maintain a constant volume to function correctly. If a medication changes the volume or composition of the body’s fluid or blood supply, the amount of endolymph in the inner ear system, may fluctuate as well. This fluctuation is thought to cause the symptoms of endolymphatic hydrops or Meniere’s disease, which causes pressure or fullness in the ears, tinnitus (ringing in the ears), hearing loss, dizziness and imbalance.

The point of this story is not to worry you about the possibility of side effects your medications might cause. It’s likely that your doctor understands what you might experience when taking your prescription but the benefit to your health is greater than the side effects the medication may cause. You should never stop a medication without talking to your doctor first. But if you have concerns about your hearing or balance or are noticing something different with your hearing or balance system when taking a medication, talk to your doctor about it. Being informed is truly
------
===== NEW BATCH 15 | input_ids shape=(2, 3970) | attention_mask shape=(2, 3970) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Building upon advances like BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, the landscape of Large Language Models (LLMs) is shifting towards highly efficient 1-bit representations. In this study, we present a 1-bit LLM variant named \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, characterized by constraining every model parameter to one of three possible values: \{-1, 0, 1\}. Despite this drastic reduction in precision, our ternary LLM achieves parity with its full-precision Transformer counterpart (using FP16 or BF16) in both perplexity and downstream task accuracy for equivalent model sizes and training data volumes. At the same time, it brings considerable advantages in terms of inference latency, memory utilization, computational throughput, and energy efficiency. Notably, this 1.58-bit representation inspires a novel scaling law and provides a blueprint for the next generation of LLMs that combine high effectiveness with low resource demands. This approach further unlocks a fresh computing paradigm and paves the way for the development of specialized hardware geared towards 1-bit LLM architectures.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

The last few years have witnessed extraordinary expansion in the scale and proficiency of Large Language Models (LLMs) within the AI domain. These advances have set new benchmarks across diverse natural language understanding and generation applications. Nevertheless, the exponential growth in LLM size has brought deployment difficulties to the forefront and intensified worries regarding their sustainability and operational costs, primarily due to substantial power usage.

An emerging strategy to mitigate these obstacles involves post-training quantization methods, which tailor model representations to use fewer bits for inference~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. By lowering the precision of both weights and activations, these methods can dramatically reduce memory footprints and computational loads. This progression has moved from standard 16-bit precision toward much lower bit-widths, including prominent 4-bit models~\cite{gptq, awq}. Despite their prevalence in the deployment of commercial LLMs, post-training quantization generally yields sub-optimal results compared to alternatives.

Recent advancements in 1-bit model architectures—exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}—suggest a promising pathway for cutting down large language model (LLM) operational costs without compromising accuracy. Conventional LLMs rely on 16-bit floating-point representations (such as FP16 or BF16), and their computation is largely dominated by matrix multiplications. Consequently, the main computational expenses stem from floating-point addition and multiplication. By contrast, BitNet leverages integer addition for matrix multiplications, which substantially decreases the energy consumed during LLM operations. Given that power is a central bottleneck in the computational capabilities of many hardware platforms, the reduction in energy usage further allows for more rapid execution.

Beyond computation, inference-time parameter transfer—from DRAM to on-chip accelerator memory (like SRAM)—also incurs notable costs. Expanding SRAM to alleviate this is not ideal, as it tends to be far more expensive than DRAM. Compared to full-precision alternatives, 1-bit LLMs achieve significant reductions in both memory capacity and bandwidth requirements, ultimately lowering both the financial and temporal costs of model weight transfers from DRAM. This contributes to overall gains in inference speed and efficiency.

Here, we present a notable 1-bit LLM variant, designated \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, wherein all parameters are ternary, capable of taking the values \{-1, 0, 1\}. The additional zero augments the original binary BitNet, resulting in a representation size of 1.58 bits per parameter in binary terms. \text{BitNet b1.58} inherits the central computational innovations of its predecessor, nearly eliminating multiplication in matrix operations and enabling highly optimized computation. It preserves the energy-efficient profile of the original BitNet and remains highly advantageous over FP16-based LLMs in memory usage, computational throughput, and latency. Moreover, \text{BitNet b1.58} provides two further benefits. The first is its increased expressive power, attributable to the ability of weights to explicitly mask features via the zero value—this addition enhances the representational and generalization capacity of 1-bit LLMs. The second benefit, as demonstrated in our experiments, is that \text{BitNet b1.58} can achieve parity with full-precision FP16 models regarding perplexity and downstream task performance, for models at least 3B in size, given identical model and training configurations.

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} builds upon the BitNet framework, a variant of the Transformer architecture wherein the conventional \emph{nn.Linear} layers are substituted with \emph{BitLinear} layers. The model is initialized and trained entirely anew, employing weights quantized to 1.58 bits and activations at 8 bits. This version incorporates several changes relative to the original BitNet design, which are outlined as follows.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} In order to restrict weight values to the set $\{-1, 0, +1\}$, we implement an \emph{absmean} based quantization procedure. The approach involves rescaling the weight matrix by its mean absolute value, and subsequently mapping each element to the closest integer within the permitted set:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

For activation quantization, we utilize the same scheme as BitNet. However, rather than normalizing the activations before applying non-linear functions to fit within $[0, Q_b]$, we rescale all activations to the interval $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ on a per-token basis. This approach omits zero-point quantization, thereby simplifying both the software implementation and hardware optimization. Our empirical results indicate that this change has an insignificant impact on model performance.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

The LLaMA~\cite{llama, llama2} architecture serves as the prevailing foundation among open-source large language models. To maintain compatibility with this ecosystem, we structure \text{BitNet b1.58} with several LLaMA-inspired elements: employing RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, integrating SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, using rotary embedding~\cite{rope}, and eliminating all biases from the model. This design choice facilitates straightforward deployment within popular open-source platforms such as Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}, requiring minimal integration effort.

\section{Results}

We conducted a comparative analysis between \text{BitNet b1.58} and our implementation of FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} across multiple model sizes. Both models were pre-trained for 100 billion tokens using the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama} to provide an equitable evaluation setting. Their zero-shot capabilities were assessed on an array of language understanding tasks, including ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. Additionally, validation perplexity measurements were reported for the WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4} benchmarks.

The GPU memory consumption and inference latency of both \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58} were quantitatively measured. These benchmarks utilized the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} library, which is optimized for low-latency inference on GPUs. For \text{BitNet b1.58}, we also integrated the 2-bit kernel provided by Ladder~\cite{ladder}. We documented the time per generated output token, recognizing this as the main contributor to inference computational cost.

Table~\ref{tab:ppl} provides an overview of perplexity outcomes and computational costs for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. Notably, at the 3B parameter scale, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves comparable perplexity to its full-precision \text{LLaMA LLM} counterpart, but with a 2.71-fold acceleration and a 3.55-fold reduction in GPU memory usage. Furthermore, the 3.9B version of \text{BitNet b1.58} demonstrates a 2.4-fold speed increase and 3.32-fold lower memory usage compared to \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B, while also surpassing its performance.

Details of zero-shot accuracy across downstream tasks can be found in Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot}. Evaluation was carried out following the protocols in \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}}. The data suggest that as model capacity grows, the performance disparity between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} becomes less pronounced. Crucially, \text{BitNet b1.58} matches the full-precision baseline’s results starting at the 3B scale. Consistent with perplexity analysis, task-level results indicate that \text{BitNet b1.58} at 3.9B exceeds the accuracy of \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B while operating at reduced memory and latency costs. These findings indicate that \text{BitNet b1.58} represents a Pareto-efficient advance relative to current large language model architectures.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

We extended our experiments by increasing the model sizes to 7B, 13B, and 70B, and examined the associated computational cost. As depicted in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy}, both latency and memory usage show clear scaling trends; notably, the acceleration effect is amplified as the models become larger. For example, at 70B parameters, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves a speed-up of 4.1x relative to the \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline. This improvement arises because the execution time for \emph{nn.Linear} layers increases with greater model size. Memory demands also scale in a comparable manner, primarily because the full-precision embedding layer's contribution to total memory footprint becomes proportionally less significant in larger models. Latency and memory measurements utilized a 2-bit kernel implementation, indicating further opportunities exist to optimize and minimize resource usage.

\paragraph{Energy}

We analyzed the energy requirements attributable to arithmetic operations for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. Our focus was on matrix multiplication, as this operation constitutes the most substantial computational cost within LLMs. Figure~\ref{fig:energy} breaks down the sources of energy expenditure: the majority of operations in \text{BitNet b1.58} involve INT8 additions, whereas in \text{LLaMA LLM} most computations are FP16 additions and multiplications. Relying on the energy estimation models presented in~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, \text{BitNet b1.58} demonstrates a 71.4-fold reduction in energy consumption for matrix multiplication operations on 7nm process technology. Additionally, we measured total energy usage for generating outputs with 512 tokens. Our findings indicate that as model size increases, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves increasingly greater energy efficiency over the FP16-based \text{LLaMA LLM}, owing to the expanding dominance of \emph{nn.Linear} operations in large models and the relatively smaller overhead from other architectural components.

\paragraph{Throughput}

We evaluated and contrasted the throughput performance of \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} (70B parameters), utilizing two 80GB A100 GPUs configured with pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe}, which is necessary to accommodate the 70B \text{LLaMA LLM}. The batch size was incrementally increased until the available GPU memory was fully utilized, maintaining a sequence length of 512. As reported in Table~\ref{tab:throughput}, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B is capable of sustaining a batch size up to 11 times larger than that of \text{LLaMA LLM}, thereby achieving a throughput that is 8.9 times greater.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} establishes a new paradigm in scaling model efficiency with respect to both performance and inference overhead}. Drawing from the observations in Figures~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and~\ref{fig:energy}, we present the following approximate correspondences for model sizes between the 1.58-bit and 16-bit representations:

\begin{itemize}
    \item A 13B BitNet b1.58 model surpasses the 3B FP16 LLM regarding latency, memory footprint, and energy expenditure.
    \item The 30B BitNet b1.58 model exceeds the 7B FP16 LLM in latency, memory efficiency, and energy consumption.
    \item The 70B BitNet b1.58 outperforms the 13B FP16 LLM across latency, memory usage, and energy usage metrics.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

The scale of training tokens used plays a fundamental role in the effectiveness of LLMs. To assess the ability of \text{BitNet b1.58} to scale with the number of tokens, we conducted training on a \text{BitNet b1.58} model with 2T tokens, adhering to the data preparation methodology of StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, recognized as a leading open-source 3B parameter model. Both models were subsequently evaluated on a benchmark suite comprising Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}. We reported zero-shot accuracy results in Table~\ref{tab:2t}; where tasks employ both accuracy and normalized accuracy, we report their average. StableLM 3b’s performance at 2T tokens is quoted directly from its official report. The results demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} consistently outperforms across all evaluated tasks, underscoring the robust generalization capability of 1.58-bit LLMs.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architectures offer a resource-efficient solution for scaling LLMs, drastically cutting required FLOPs. However, deployment is often hindered by substantial memory demands and the cost of inter-chip data communication. These bottlenecks can be alleviated with 1.58-bit LLMs. The diminished memory usage of such models means that fewer hardware units are necessary for MoE deployment. Additionally, transmission of activations over the network becomes considerably less burdensome. Ideally, this would eliminate interconnect overhead if the complete model fits onto a single device.

\textbf{Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs}

Long-context handling is a pressing need in contemporary LLM research. A primary obstacle for efficient long-sequence inference is the high memory usage driven by key-value (KV) caches. \text{BitNet b1.58} makes significant advances in this regard by reducing activation precision from 16 to 8 bits, thereby enabling twice the sequence length with the same hardware constraints. There is further opportunity to compress these activations losslessly to 4 bits, or even lower, when working with 1.58-bit LLMs—an avenue to be explored in subsequent studies.

\textbf{LLMs on Edge and Mobile}

Leveraging 1.58-bit LLMs can bring substantial advantages for language models operating on edge and mobile platforms, which are frequently constrained by memory capacity and computational throughput. Such limitations often prevent effective LLM deployment on these devices. The lowered energy and memory requirements of 1.58-bit LLMs facilitate their operation in resource-restricted environments, opening avenues for novel applications previously deemed impractical. This significantly broadens the potential of edge and mobile devices to leverage LLMs in diverse scenarios. In addition, 1.58-bit LLMs exhibit strong compatibility with CPUs, which predominate in these systems, enabling efficient execution of \text{BitNet b1.58} and further augmenting device functionality and performance.

\textbf{New Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Developments such as~Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}} have showcased the potential of purpose-built hardware (e.g., LPUs) for supporting LLM workloads. Building upon this trajectory, there is a clear imperative to design novel systems and hardware architectures tailored for 1-bit LLMs, capitalizing on the new computational frameworks introduced with BitNet~\cite{bitnet}.<|im_end|>
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: This report details an uncommon instance of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) identified simultaneously with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), meeting the criteria for definite BD and presenting alongside syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). A male patient in his 60s exhibited fever, headache, and a range of mucocutaneous symptoms, such as oral aphthae, folliculitis-like skin eruptions, genital ulcers, and hyponatraemia. The diagnosis of BD was established based on these mucocutaneous features. Despite normal findings on brain MRI, analysis of cerebrospinal fluid indicated aseptic meningitis, which corroborated the diagnosis of acute neuro-BD. Laboratory evaluation substantiated the diagnosis of SIADH. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in improvement of the mucocutaneous lesions, neurological symptoms, and hyponatraemia, without resorting to corticosteroids or additional immunosuppressive therapies. This case highlights a potential link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH, emphasizing the need for clinicians to be vigilant for simultaneous neurological and endocrine involvement when evaluating patients with recent BD diagnoses.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent, systemic inflammatory condition marked by recurring oral and genital ulcers, ocular inflammation (uveitis), and cutaneous manifestations. Neurological complications, classified as neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), arise in around 10%–20% of BD cases, most commonly manifesting years following the primary diagnosis. Acute presentations of neuro-BD are often characterized by meningoencephalitis alongside parenchymal lesions of the brain, particularly affecting the brainstem region. Concurrent diagnosis of BD and neuro-BD is infrequent, as neurological symptoms usually appear later in the disease course. When both are identified simultaneously, it is crucial for clinicians to evaluate both mucocutaneous signs and neurological indicators, such as headaches, behavioral or psychiatric disturbances, and localized neurological deficits.

The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) constitutes a common etiology of hyponatraemia and frequently results from inflammation of the central nervous system (CNS), malignancies, or specific pharmacological agents. Since acute neuro-BD is associated with significant inflammation, patients are potentially susceptible to developing SIADH. Although there have been descriptions of SIADH in BD patients undergoing therapy with agents like cyclophosphamide, the incidence of SIADH directly attributable to CNS inflammation from acute neuro-BD, in the absence of exogenous pharmacologic triggers, remains insufficiently clarified.

In this report, we describe an unusual instance where BD and acute neuro-BD were simultaneously diagnosed, with the clinical course further complicated by SIADH. This case underscores the necessity of recognizing SIADH as a possible complication in patients with acute neuro-BD, especially when presenting with vague CNS symptoms coupled with hyponatraemia.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his 60s arrived at the emergency department after experiencing three days of fever, headache, overall fatigue, diminished appetite, continuous hiccups, and joint pain in his shoulders and ankles. He further described having developed oral aphthous ulcers.

The patient’s medical background was notable for type 2 diabetes mellitus, which remained untreated due to his insufficient awareness of the diagnosis and lack of adherence to recommended dietary and physical activity guidelines. His family medical history was not significant for BD, and there were no affected relatives. Socially, he reported infrequent alcohol consumption, no tobacco use, absence of recent travel, and no known contact with animals or individuals who were ill. His occupation was in metalworking, and he denied recent sexual encounters.

Upon assessment, the patient was conscious but displayed signs of tiredness. His recorded vital parameters included a temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure at 135/73 mm Hg, heart rate measuring 119 beats per minute with a regular rhythm, respiratory rate at 19 breaths per minute, and an oxygen saturation of 96% while breathing ambient air. Physical inspection showed the presence of oral aphthae and rashes resembling folliculitis on both his face and torso (refer to figure 1A, B, and C). Examinations of the cardiovascular, pulmonary, and abdominal systems did not reveal any abnormalities. Manual muscle strength evaluation demonstrated normal muscle function in both upper and lower limbs. No peripheral edema was detected, and clinical judgment indicated a euvolemic state. The patient was subsequently hospitalized for additional diagnostic work-up.

Investigations:

The initial laboratory assessment demonstrated significant hyponatraemia (124 mmol/L), along with raised levels of creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein (CRP) at 180 mg/L (reference, <3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (70 mm/hour; reference, <15 mm/hour). Renal function tests remained within normal limits. The patient exhibited hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and a high HbA1c of 8.2%, reflecting suboptimal glycaemic management. Screening for hepatitis B and C returned negative.

Further endocrine workup showed that thyroid-stimulating hormone was 1.11 mIU/L (reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 was 1.25 ng/dL (reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL), and serum cortisol was 42 µg/dL (reference, >6 µg/dL), all within the expected ranges. The serum osmolality was decreased (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg), while urine osmolality was notably elevated (900 mOsm/kg; reference, >300 mOsm/kg), and urinary sodium was increased (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), indicative of a defect in water excretion. In the context of hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) was found to be elevated (22.4 pg/mL). Electrocardiogram results were normal, and imaging studies including chest X-ray and CT scans of the head, chest, and abdomen were unremarkable. Collectively, these results were consistent with a diagnosis of SIADH.

By the third day, his symptoms of headache and vertigo had intensified. Despite the absence of neck rigidity or involvement of cranial nerves, central nervous system (CNS) inflammation remained a concern. MRI scans of the brain did not indicate any significant lesions in the hypothalamus or other brain structures (figure 2). Examination of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) demonstrated a slightly raised opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), elevated protein concentration (0.97 g/L), and a modest lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). Microbiological analysis, including cultures for bacteria and mycobacteria, as well as PCR or antigen tests for herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcus, were all negative. CSF cytology did not detect any malignant cells.

Additional diagnostic workup was undertaken to assess for possible systemic disorders. Evaluation for sarcoidosis included measurements of lysozyme (5.1 µg/mL; reference 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) (11.4 U/L; reference 7–25), both within normal reference intervals. Assessment for hematologic malignancies revealed an elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) level (704 U/mL; reference 122–496 U/mL), while testing for human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 antibodies was negative.

By day 5, the patient developed a painful ulcerative lesion on the scrotum (figure 1D). In conjunction with oral aphthous ulcers and eruptions resembling folliculitis, these clinical features pointed toward a systemic manifestation of BD. No pinprick hypersensitivity was observed. Ophthalmologic assessment found no evidence of uveitis. HLA-B51 testing returned positive.

Differential diagnosis:

Upon admission, the presence of fever, headache, malaise, and hyponatraemia raised concerns about a potential CNS infection or systemic inflammatory process. The initial diagnostic impression leaned toward viral meningoencephalitis, with HSV and VZV regarded as the primary pathogens. Nevertheless, CSF analyses for viral antigens and antibodies were negative, effectively dismissing this etiology. Bacterial meningitis was also contemplated but excluded due to a lack of neutrophilic dominance, only modest lymphocytic pleocytosis, and negative CSF cultures. Tuberculous meningitis was discounted in light of negative results for acid-fast staining and tuberculosis DNA testing.

Consideration was also given to primary CNS tumors, prompted by the neurological manifestations. Yet, brain MRI demonstrated no abnormalities and CSF cytological examination identified no malignant cells. Although sIL-2R was found to be slightly increased, this single observation was inadequate to diagnose CNS lymphoma.

Potential autoimmune etiologies were assessed but rejected in the absence of typical systemic symptoms and negative results from screening for autoantibodies. Neurosarcoidosis remained a theoretical possibility, as normal MRI imaging is sometimes seen in the disease’s early phases; however, subsequent laboratory findings did not support this diagnosis. The mild elevation in sIL-2R was ultimately viewed as a nonspecific laboratory finding.

A definitive diagnosis of BD was rendered, supported by clinical manifestations including fever, fatigue, oral aphthae (two points), genital aphthosis (two points), and a folliculitis-like eruption (one point). According to the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease, a total of five points was tallied (with a threshold of four points required for definite diagnosis). Genital aphthosis, in particular, is regarded as highly specific for BD, which lent strong credence to the diagnosis. After systematically ruling out infectious, neoplastic, and autoimmune origins, acute neuro-BD was diagnosed in light of CNS involvement coupled with characteristic mucocutaneous symptoms.

Treatment:

Upon admission (day 1), clinicians suspected the presence of an inflammatory disorder, though the precise underlying cause could not be identified. Broad-spectrum antimicrobial treatment with cefepime was commenced following collection of blood cultures, aiming to address a possible bacterial pathogen despite no clear source of infection being apparent.

By day 3, the patient’s symptoms of headache and vertigo intensified, raising concerns for central nervous system inflammation or infection. As a precaution, acyclovir was initiated but later withdrawn once testing excluded both HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On day 8, initiation of colchicine therapy occurred after the diagnoses of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were confirmed. Topical corticosteroid ointment was used to manage oral aphthous ulcers. Treatment of genital and cutaneous lesions was accomplished with silver sulfadiazine cream. For SIADH, conservative management consisted of restricting fluid intake to less than 800 mL/day, with close daily monitoring of serum sodium levels to prevent rapid correction. Neither hypertonic saline nor vasopressin receptor antagonists were necessary during this period.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient’s fever subsided, and his appetite returned the day following the initiation of colchicine therapy. Over the subsequent two weeks, his clinical manifestations—including vertigo, persistent fatigue, hiccups, and mucocutaneous lesions—showed progressive improvement. By the 16th day, his serum sodium had stabilized at 136 mmol/L, and antidiuretic hormone (ADH) levels decreased to 1.8 pg/mL. Additionally, his myogenic enzyme values normalized.

Notably, the treatment course did not involve systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive medications. The patient was discharged after a hospitalization lasting one month, during which acute symptoms were resolved, hyponatraemia was closely managed, and rehabilitative interventions addressed physical deconditioning. Colchicine was maintained as ongoing therapy for around four years, during which time neither BD nor neurological issues reappeared. Once BD reached a stable state, biguanide medication was introduced, resulting in effective long-term glycaemic management.

Discussion:

This case report details a rare scenario in which systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed concurrently. Furthermore, it illustrates that acute neuro-BD may be associated with SIADH as a complication. The complete resolution of mucocutaneous lesions, neurological symptoms, and hyponatraemia following colchicine monotherapy points toward a potential direct link between BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. Consequently, in individuals with BD who exhibit fever or headache in conjunction with hyponatraemia, clinicians should maintain a high index of suspicion for acute neuro-BD as an underlying etiology.

The uniqueness of this case lies in the parallel identification of both systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, evidenced by both mucocutaneous involvement and central nervous system symptoms. Conventionally, major organ manifestations such as CNS pathology tend to emerge approximately four years after BD diagnosis, and neurological features at onset are infrequent, occurring in less than 5% of cases. Only a small fraction, around 10%, of BD patients develop headaches attributable directly to neuro-BD. Therefore, the initial diagnosis of neuro-BD in this instance was particularly challenging. Acute neuro-BD most frequently manifests as a transient meningoencephalitis that may or may not be associated with focal neurological deficits. In this patient, brain MRI failed to show characteristic BD-related lesions, including within the hypothalamic area. It is important to note that acute neuro-BD can present as aseptic meningitis in the absence of brain parenchymal lesions, and a normal brain MRI in the early phase does not rule out the condition. The absence of specific imaging findings further complicated the diagnosis. Although HLA-B51 analysis was conducted, it did not facilitate the diagnostic process. This outcome is consistent with international diagnostic criteria for BD, which prioritize clinical presentation over HLA-B51 status. This case underscores the necessity of considering neuro-BD in the differential diagnosis when patients with BD present with mucocutaneous findings accompanied by non-specific neurological complaints.

During the initial stage of differential diagnosis, we gave precedence to infectious etiologies for CNS inflammation due to the presence of an unexplained fever, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia; nonetheless, no definitive pathogen was identified. Alternative causes of CNS inflammation, such as connective tissue disorders and neoplastic processes, were also evaluated, with particular attention to sarcoidosis and hematologic malignancies. Consequently, a wide-ranging initial workup included testing for autoimmune serological markers, as well as serum ACE and sIL-2R, which were employed as preliminary screening tools. These investigations were conducted selectively and served as part of an exclusionary strategy rather than as a response to compelling clinical suspicion. Ultimately, neither clinical presentation, imaging, nor cerebrospinal fluid analysis supported these alternative diagnoses, and these ancillary investigations did not meaningfully aid in establishing the underlying cause. It is noteworthy that ACE levels are of low sensitivity for sarcoidosis, and while sIL-2R measurements may be beneficial in assessing malignant lymphoma, slight elevations are frequently nonspecific and may simply indicate a general inflammatory state. In this scenario, the lack of genital ulcers in the early symptomatic phase rendered a diagnosis of BD less apparent, thereby necessitating consideration of an extensive differential diagnosis. This approach to diagnosis illustrates the pitfalls of nonselective testing and underscores the principle that such diagnostic measures should be undertaken judiciously—only when warranted by supportive clinical evidence—and interpreted within the appropriate clinical context.

While drug-induced SIADH has previously been observed in individuals with BD treated with agents such as cyclophosphamide, the connection between acute neuro-BD and the development of SIADH has yet to be fully elucidated. Neuro-BD is marked by central nervous system inflammation, a process that may underlie abnormal ADH regulation. A number of investigations have demonstrated that interleukin-6 (IL-6)—a proinflammatory cytokine often elevated in neuroinflammatory diseases—is implicated in enhanced ADH secretion. In the context of BD, aberrant activation of monocytes results in unregulated IL-6 production, with increased concentrations of IL-6 documented in the CSF of those experiencing acute neuro-BD. This evidence raises the possibility that IL-6–driven inflammation plays a role in the onset of SIADH in such circumstances. Although IL-6 was not specifically assessed in the serum or CSF for the current patient, the notably high serum CRP level could serve as an indicator of an IL-6–mediated inflammatory reaction. SIADH is linked to multiple etiologies, such as CNS inflammation, lung diseases, cancer, and the use of specific drugs; thus, the data presented here cannot definitively establish a direct causative relationship between SIADH and acute neuro-BD. Instead, the close timing of these events in this case may indicate a generalized physiological response to CNS inflammation rather than a process unique to the underlying disease.

This case further demonstrates the possible complications arising from hyponatraemia due to SIADH occurring in the context of acute neuro-BD. Prior studies have indicated that persistent hiccups can be a significant clinical indicator of severe hyponatraemia resulting from SIADH associated with central nervous system inflammation, including cases of meningitis. Furthermore, as part of the initial assessment for symptoms such as fever, arthralgia, and general fatigue—which could be indicative of inflammatory or metabolic muscle injury—we assessed CK levels, which led to the identification of rhabdomyolysis. This condition is a recognised, though frequently underdiagnosed, consequence of severe hyponatraemia that is not routinely screened for. Although these clinical features are established manifestations of significant hyponatraemia, they are commonly under-recognised. It is important for clinicians to consider that symptoms such as hiccups or rhabdomyolysis, which may appear unrelated, could signal underlying electrolyte imbalances, especially when present with neuroinflammatory diseases.
------
===== NEW BATCH 16 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Corticosteroids are widely regarded as the cornerstone therapy for acute neuro-BD, with the majority of individuals showing a positive therapeutic response. Nevertheless, there have been descriptions of spontaneous remission in patients whose clinical manifestations are limited to meningoencephalitis-like presentations. In this particular case, administration of colchicine as a single agent led to improvement in both mucocutaneous and neurological features, in addition to correcting hyponatraemia. The mechanism of colchicine involves anti-inflammatory action via the inhibition of neutrophil movement and activation, as well as downregulation of cytokine release, notably IL-1β and IL-6. While colchicine is commonly employed for addressing mucocutaneous lesions in BD, evidence from systematic reviews indicates its lack of efficacy in acute neuro-BD, for which immunosuppressive medications are typically considered necessary to achieve optimal disease control. Historically, colchicine has served as an adjunctive agent alongside corticosteroids or alternative immunosuppressants rather than as a standalone treatment. Though spontaneous improvement in this case cannot be conclusively ruled out, the results observed here imply that colchicine could represent a potential therapeutic option for acute neuro-BD and associated conditions like SIADH, especially in scenarios where the use of corticosteroids is inadvisable or contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We reported an uncommon instance of concurrent BD and acute neuro-BD, in which the patient developed SIADH as a complication of neuro-BD. This observation indicates that SIADH can arise in the context of acute neuro-BD, underscoring the need for clinicians to recognize this possible relationship. Administration of colchicine as a single agent resulted in prompt resolution of mucocutaneous manifestations, neurological symptoms, and hyponatraemia, implying that colchicine could serve as an effective initial treatment option for neuro-BD. For BD patients who exhibit vague central nervous system symptoms—including fever and headache—alongside hyponatraemia, practitioners should remain vigilant for acute neuro-BD in cases where SIADH is also present.<|im_end|><|im_end|> pool of conceivable outcomes. 


With a significant upsurge in the utilization of cell phones, organizations and new companies are presently moving to online platforms. 


In any case, when these new companies connect with the product sellers for building up a custom versatile business application, they regularly have next to zero clues about what they truly need.


However, before you indulge in creating one, try asking yourself a few questions to know if your product would actually help your potential buyers. 


7 Questions To Ask Before Entering The Domain Of App Development


It is always advisable not to go for creating an app directly before knowing the viability of your app idea. If your app idea ain’t viable or does not provide any solution to your customers, then it is better to drop the idea then and there. 


So, before you start investing your money or rather save your precious hard-earned money from wasting, do a little homework. 


Ask yourself,


  1. How Often Will The Users Actually Run My App?


Smartphone owners these days simply prefer to keep their device upgraded with the apps of their utility and not those which they find irrelevant.  


So, it is always better if you instill a few useful features in your app so that the users at least find it useful to keep it on their device. 

2. Does My App Solve A Problem?


This is the most basic thing that you have to take a look at. You need to see whether your app would really tackle any issue. 


In the event that your app doesn't give a one of a kind unique or genuine technical advantage or solve any particular issue, it may not merit the venture. 


To distinguish which issue your application can address and afterward make a Minimum Viable Product form of your application and continue including more features based on your user feedback. 

3. Who's Going To Use My App?


In the wake of identifying the issues and pain related to your industry or niche, you have to discover who is going to utilize your app. 


Attempt to place yourself from your client's point of view. Also, check whether things truly work out. 


If you were a user, will you be excited about using the app? 


Would you look for it in the play stores? 


Would you tell your peers regarding it? 


On the off chance that you can be straightforward with yourself about those answers, it can spare you from dissatisfaction later.

4. Which Platform Should I Invest Upon?


How sure you are about your app platform?


Is it getting down to business on each stage like iOS, Android, and Windows? 


However, if you're confused or do not know about which platform would be best for you, then it's high time that you choose for the cross-platform app development.


This is a fundamental procedure to guarantee that your application can convey over all platforms. Without making devoted local applications for every stage.

5. Do I Have The Right Technology Partner?


App development is something very crucial which not only requires dedication but also requires investment. Considering it no child’s play, choose your tech partner wisely.


You simply cannot choose a company that has no or little knowledge about app development. Do a good amount of research and choose a company that holds several years of experience in app development with happy customers. 

6. Is My App Marketing Plan In The Right Place?


Most of the entrepreneurs are in a hurry to get their app launched. They do not do proper brainstorming or research while they decide to launch their app. The result is obvious- a great product fails to make it big in the market. 


Creating an app marketing strategy is extremely vital before launching an app. 


So, do not hurry. Get your app marketing strategies and plan set in one place and then go for the big shot.

7. Can I Place The Expected Budget For My App Development Project?


Keeping your budget in place is something that every smart app developer does while starting an app development project. Building up a mobile application is certainly not a cheap undertaking. In any case, luckily, there are courses through which you can build up your application cost-effectively. 


So, plan your budget first, and ensure you keep a lump aside for marketing, product promotion, and support.


Concluding Thoughts


There is no point in building a wonderful app that will simply stay in the app stores and do nothing since you don't have enough money to spend on deals, and promoting. Also, if you don’t have the right app marketing strategies in place then it is definite that your app may fail to make it in the marketplace.


Get the expert help of the best mobile app development company that can not only get you with your dream app but also help you to get your app placed in the top of the app store listings. If you have answers to all the above-mentioned questions, then you’re perfectly ready, to begin your app development and go immediately with your bumper launch. 

Author's Bio: 

Swarnendu De is the Co-founder of Innofied, an Award Winning Apps & Game Development company. He manages the Technical & Business Development Operations at Innofied. With over 10 years of industry experience, Swarnendu has also authored Backbone.js Patterns and Best Practices, published by Packt Publishing, UK. He regularly writes at his company blogs, LinkedIn and other popular platforms.<|endoftext|>buy carisoprodol indianapolis

Public Affairs and recently launched a highly successful Bachelor of Criminal Justice undergraduate degree. An abuser can be carisoprodol prescription assistance a spouse, partner, relative, a friend or neighbor, a volunteer worker, a paid worker, practitioner, solicitor, or any other individual with the intent to deprive a vulnerable person of their resources. Medical professionals can view the images on any computer that is on the hospital network. This can lead to depression and other self-esteem carisoprodol prescription assistance issues as well as decrease their satisfaction of life as they feel if their life is not exciting enough to put online it is not as good as their friends or family. After Offred's initial meeting with carisoprodol prescription assistance Nick, they begin cheapest generic sibutramine 15mg in bangkok to meet more frequently. Nanotechnology already presents new issues for OSH professionals that will only carisoprodol prescription assistance become more difficult carisoprodol prescription assistance as nanostructures become more complex. There are many researchers who believe that stressing any single approach to the study of human sexuality and excluding others Generic sibutramine sizes is not logical and counterproductive. The hydraulic dampers of the multi-link rear suspension were also re-tuned to match the front suspension changes. However, more recent evidence shows that DEET serves as a true repellent in that mosquitoes intensely dislike the smell of the chemical. Leela arrives late order lorazepam online in usa to a business meeting scheduled with Arshad, who is angered that she is distracted by Manoj carisoprodol prescription assistance and becomes upset with her. Reddit's place to censor its users. While Dutch is the official language of government, business, media, and education, Sranan, an English-based creole language, is a widely used lingua franca. The study was designed with by comparing electronic medical carisoprodol prescription assistance records. Countries with restrictive abortion laws have higher rates of unsafe abortion and similar overall abortion rates compared to those where abortion is legal and available. During peacetime, most violence against women is perpetrated by either male individuals whom them know or intimate male partners. Eccentric exercises improve the tensile strength of the tendon and lengthen the muscle-tendon junction, decreasing the amount of strain experienced carisoprodol prescription assistance with ankle joint movements. Its current director is Dr. Klinefelter syndrome usually occurs randomly. There are four channels by which social media resources can transform into business performance capabilities:There are four tools or approaches that engage experts, customers, suppliers, and employees in the development of products and services using social media. In the weeks preceding, he promoted the race by producing and starring in a viral video. Potassium chloride is extracted from minerals sylvite, carnallite, and potash. Media speculated this clash to affect the business of this film, as the latter released across 3000 screens with a star cast. As the main component of connective tissue, it is the most abundant protein in mammals, making up from 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content. Usually, the substance present in the greatest amount is considered the solvent. Since the emergence of modern clinical pharmacy, ambulatory care pharmacy practice has emerged as a unique pharmacy practice setting. It was modelled on an 18th-century skull, but the only surviving human part of the original is the teeth. Netcare messaging is performed with HL7-encoded where to buy clonazepam 2mg online legit XML messages. A month later, while on parole, he trespassed into a neighbor's home while under the influence of a controlled substance and fell asleep in one of the what is generic for soma beds. The medical services were large operations, with over 600,000 soldiers, and ten carisoprodol prescription assistance enlisted men for every nurse. Similarly, a person transfused for severe folate or vitamin B12 deficiency would have two cell populations, but, in this case, the patient's RBCs would be larger and paler than the donor's RBCs. Under his guidance, UCSF further increased its lead in the field of surgery, transplant surgery, and surgical training. Researchers say that carisoprodol prescription assistance unlike other types of rape, DFSA is not a crime of physical violence: Stenosing tenosynovitis is carisoprodol prescription assistance a clinical diagnosis. Classification Act of 1949: carisoprodol prescription assistance Cheapest generic ultram in the uk These Where to purchase tramadol 200mg online no prescription include posttraumatic stress disorder, panic disorder, carisoprodol prescription assistance social carisoprodol prescription assistance phobia, major depressive disorder, dysthymic disorder, and eating disorders. The institute was named for the family of Ralph S. Progestin-only emergency contraceptive pills. Generally, states that rely on tobacco as a significant farm product tend to tax cigarettes at a low rate. Beck and colleagues in Montreal, in the buy drug adipex in thailand late 1950s. The two fight each other in a rage while being attacked by the sentinel and as is tramadol an opiate Wolverine claws into Cyclops visor, the students reappear on the battlefield to help them fight the sentinel. After the war, President carisoprodol prescription assistance William Tubman want to buy diazepam online europe encouraged foreign investment in the country. Circumcision may be celebrated with an associated family or community event. Independent, and had an energetic conversation with its editor Simon Kelner. One way to actively target solely diseased tissue in the body is to know the nature of a receptor on the cell for which the drug will be targeted to. Neoteny has been observed in all salamander families in which it seems to be a survival mechanism, in aquatic environments only of mountain and hill, with little food and, in particular, with little iodine. Popular as a taxicab, the 404 enjoyed a reputation for durability and value. Phthalates are used in a variety of household applications such as shower curtains, vinyl upholstery, adhesives, floor tiles, food containers and wrappers, and cleaning materials. The town contains a large roundabout called Magic Roundabout. Lymphomas in the skin may also result in lumps, which are commonly itchy, red or purple. Among the male subjects, however, the straight men clonazepam 1mg discounted were turned on only by erotic films with women, the gay ones by those with men. These drugs include:Sildenafil, sold as the brand name Viagra among others, is a medication used to treat erectile dysfunction and carisoprodol prescription assistance pulmonary arterial hypertension. Adding iron to iodised salt is complicated by a number of chemical, technical, and organoleptic issues. In it the court found that the use of solitary confinement produced reduced mental and physical capabilities. They can help some smokers quit. They venture out into the mist to seek help, where they are killed by a huge, unseen creature.
Buy generic ultram 100mg online in the uk Want to buy zolpidem 10mg online with visa Adipex how to buy Buy cheap tramadol 100mg tablets online uk

buy soma on the internet

If there is no person willing to take the minimum sum, then a reverse auction is conducted where subscribers open-bid for lower amounts; that is carisoprodol prescription assistance from 50,000 >> 49,000 >> 48,000, and so on. These are usually matt emulsions and water-based paints, both of which will allow the wall to breathe. Antidepressants may be effective for treating chronic pain associated carisoprodol prescription assistance with symptoms of depression, but they have a risk of side effects. Brands include:Benefits of the implant include fewer, lighter periods; improved symptoms of premenstrual syndrome; long-lasting, up to three years; smoker- and breastfeeding-safe; and the convenience of not needing to remember to use it every day. It is also used to treat bone and joint infections, do people buy soma in bnw particularly those caused by Staphylococcus aureus. Many people who self-harm have moderate or severe depression and therefore carisoprodol prescription assistance treatment with antidepressant medications may often be used. While there were exceptions, he found that the psychological research of the time frequently regarded mental health and physical health as separate, and devoted very little attention to psychology's impact upon physical health. Mahatma Gandhi Expressway Nadiad toll plaza. It is characterized by blackheads or whiteheads, pimples, oily skin, and possible scarring. Provincial and territorial programmes include the following:In 2004, President George W. Unlike the original and current Discovery, it is does not have a steel chassis rails but is where to buy carisoprodol 350mg online in uk based on the new D7u Cheapest generic ambien online legit alloy buy cheap soma 500mg online with visa Platform, which much more resembles current flagship Range Rover with closer equipment levels and capabilities in a smaller body style. SIRUM uses these standardized codes to match clinic requests with donor excess. carisoprodol prescription assistance Some scholars argue that Type A behavior is not a good predictor of coronary heart disease. These suits were led by celebrity plaintiff attorney Melvin Belli . After the gang captures Jesse, Lorazepam canada Todd convinces his uncle to force Jesse to cook for them. However, this also allows bacteria and viruses to infiltrate the BBB. Membership mostly comprises hospital pharmacists, but is open to pharmacy technicians and pharmacy students. In general, an infected human will be quarantined. writing short stories, selling items on eBay, working as a bookkeeper, and ultimately helping her husband launder money. When he was six weeks old, his biological parents gave him up to a white working-class family in Tilbury. Although, the tweet was deleted, users of the social buy drug soma online no prescription media site circulated screenshots of what appeared to be a reference to the Black Lives Matter movement in the buy generic carisoprodol online with mastercard United States. While the mechanism is unclear, there is some evidence that triggering of the thumb is more likely to occur following surgery buy carisoprodol 500mg online in uk for carpal tunnel syndrome. Loyalty programs are very carisoprodol prescription assistance popular in Finland. Other studies have also found that giving animals carisoprodol prescription assistance placebos can play active roles Meridia 10mg fast delivery in influencing pet owners to believe in the effectiveness of the treatment when none exists. The primary component necessary to encourage lesbians to be public and seek other women was economic independence, which virtually disappeared in the 1930s with the Great Depression. At the local level, municipalities are responsible for maintaining the immediate environment of citizens such as water supply and social welfare services. The Club also offers wine gifts and made-to-order food and wine gift baskets. Later bred as pets, fancy rats now come in a wide variety of colors and coat types and are bred carisoprodol prescription assistance and raised by several rat enthusiast cheap soma with prescription groups around the world. Turbocharged engines operating at wide open throttle and high rpm carisoprodol prescription assistance require a large volume of air to flow between the turbocharger and the inlet of the engine. Professionalization of nursing in France came in the late 19th and early 20th century. This region has a longer, wetter rainy season than the Pacific lowlands, making erosion a problem on its steep slopes. There are arguments for and against quarantining OSCE examinees to prevent sharing of exam information. Nester and Antelope Halls Complex consists of two housing units along 9th Avenue that are joined by a walk-through bridge way, that is also a lounge, study area and meeting room. This means the abductors carisoprodol prescription assistance on the outside cannot work properly and strain is carisoprodol prescription assistance put on the piriformis. Hondurans wished to convoke a special constitutional congress, this sounded carisoprodol prescription assistance a lot to
------
 in pectin. This methanol comes off first from the still, so it is easily segregated and discarded. A simple rule of thumb for this is to throw away the first 50 mL (reflux still) you collect (per 20 L mash used), or 100-200 mL from a pot still.

There is no safe way to make methylated (denatured) spirits drinkable.

The other impurities, which form the tails (known as congeners or fusel oils) are quite a complex collection, but mostly just smell/taste bad rather than are actually unsafe towards you.

Basic Safety Guidelines when Distilling

Areas of concern with safety:

General safety

  • Never leave a still that is running.
  • Pay attention to the still - check it regularly (cooling water still flowing, no leaks, collecting nicely, all temperatures OK)
  • Don't distill in a closed room. Try and keep some through-draught (eg both a window and door open). Distilling can produce some nasty smelling fumes.
  • Be sober - its not a time to be making drunken mistakes.
  • Do the math - don't boil the still dry
  • Check your still with water-only the first time you use it, to make sure your condenser is up to the job. You don't want vapor coming out of the collection tube.


  • A well designed still will not produce any significant pressure. If your still seems to be producing pressure shut it down immediately and figure out why.
  • Make sure the still design is such that you can't pressurize the still - it should always be able to vent somehow to atmosphere. There shouldn't be valves such that you can fully close the column off
  • Make sure the outlet tube is free flowing - not crimped or blocked in any way. Check this every time you use it.
  • Lower end stills usually won't have pressure release valves or vacuum relief valves. This is a very good and inexpensive upgrade to increase safety.
  • Cheap pressure cooker stills like that on Amazon are very dangerous. Their outlets are too small and can get clogged easily. This can lead to over pressure and an explosion.


  • Alcohol burns nearly invisibly or with a weak blue flame. It is very difficult to detect. That's why it's so dangerous.
  • Hot alcohol vapor will ignite with any ignition source.
  • Room temp alcohol will burn at ~50% ABV or higher with an ignition source.
  • Keep a fire extinguisher with you (and on your side of whatever is going to catch fire)
  • Water is a good way to fight alcohol fires. Water will cool and dilute alcohol to put a fire out.
  • Don't smoke - you don't want ignition sources around a liquid as flammable as gasoline
  • If your still leaks (liquid or steam) shut it down immediately.
  • If your condenser puffs vapor shut it down immediately. Your condenser is not cooling enough and is allowing highly flammable vapor to vent. Figure out if you're running too hot or else your condenser is not working properly.
  • Collect the alcohol securely - don't put yourself in a position where its easy to knock over the collection vessel etc, or bump the tube out of it. This means having enough space to work in, well lit, tidy.
  • Do the math and have enough jars or whatever to collect ~30% of the wash. Running out of jars is a really bad thing.

Heating sources

  • If using electrical heating, have an GFCI/RCD on the line (a fancy circuit breaker)
  • Water and electricity are a bad mix. If you get water/wash/spirit on electrical components shut them down and clean them before continuing.
  • Make sure the electrical connections are not exposed, this could led to getting shocked.
  • Keep close to the power switch or the cord in case there is an issue. You should be able to shut the power down quickly and easily if the need arises.
  • If using direct flame heat have a CO monitor close by and ensure a good supply of fresh air.


  • Ethanol is a very powerful solvent. It will react to most synthetics. You should use only recommended materials.
  • Hi temp ethanol steam is even more so. The vapor path (lyne arm) in a still should only be made of copper or stainless steel. Aluminum will react ethanol.
  • Seals for a still should only be made of PTFE or flour. The seals are exposed to the vapor and will leach chemicals if present. PTFE is non-reactive, flour is safe.
  • For cold storage of low alcohol ABV (15% or less) PET, LDPE/MDPE/HDPE (Low/Medium/High density Polyethylene), stainless steel, or glass is fine.
  • For cold storage of higher alcohol ABV (15% or more) only glass or stainless steel is ok.
  • A discussion of plastics: Plastic codes

Ethanol Toxicity

The greatest risk to anyone who drinks alcohol is the stock-standard pissed-as-a-newt high school student style of alcohol poisoning. It tends to come from our culture of binge drinking, rather than the more moderate consumption sometimes observed in Europe. Jack has the details ... The fatal dose of ethanol is 300-400 mL of pure ethanol (600-800 mL of 50% spirits), for the average adult if consumed in less than one hour.

Chronic users develop a tolerance to ethanol. Ethanol depresses the central nervous system irregularly in descending order from cortex to medulla, depending on the amount ingested. The range between a dose that produces anesthesia and one that impairs vital functions is small. Thus, an amount that produces stupor is dangerously close to a fatal dose. Effects are potentiated by concomitant ingestion of barbiturates and other depressant drugs.

Intoxication levels (broadly) are found in this manner:
  • Mild (Blood alc content 0.05%-0.15% - one fourth of the people at this level are clinically intoxicated) results in decreased inhibition, slight visual impairment, muscular uncoordination, and slowed reaction time.
  • Moderate: (BAC: 0.15%-0.3% - 50 to 95% of the people at this level are clinically intoxicated)- results in definite visual impairment, sensory loss, muscular uncoordination, slurring of speech.
  • Severe (BAC 0.3%-0.5% -fatalities begin to occur in this range)-marked muscular uncoordination, blurred vision, approaching stupor.
  • Coma (BAC above 0.5% - death is common in this range)- Unconsciousness, slowed respiration, complete loss of sensations.

Treatment of acute poisoning begins with the removal of unabsorbed ethanol by gastric lavage with tap water or by emesis (induced vomiting). The airway must be kept clear- artificial respiration may be needed. Give 2grams of sodium bicarbonate in 250ml of tap water every 2 hours to maintain neutral or slightly alkaline urine, avoid administration of excess fluids. Avoid all depressant drugs. In the presence of hypoglycemia, give 5-10% glucose intravenously plus thiamine, 100mg intra-muscularly. Hemodialysis is needed if the blood ethanol level is above 5mg/ml. Survival for 24 hours is ordinarily followed by recovery.

I know most of the readers of this website are responsible enough to not need this information, but we just had another college student have a "21 drinks for 21 years" birthday party, and it killed him.


The next greatest risk to distillers is that of fire. You're producing a liquid which is on a par with gasoline with flammability, yet doing so around heating elements (or even gas flames).

Make sure that there is no way you can build up pressure inside your still - say by blocking the outlet piping (accidentally crimping it ?). Make sure your equipment is in good condition when you use it, that it's clean (don't want the packing material clogging up & blocking), and that there are no leaks. Don't bury the outlet tube under the surface of the liquid level in the collection jar, rather have it dripping into it openly. If using gas, keep the collection jar quite away from it. Don't set up your collection jars so that they are easily knocked over, and cap them when not in use. Keep your area well ventilated, and never leave the still unattended.

At all times keep a fire extinguisher close.

Will I go Blind? Methanol & Other Impurities

A big fear for many new distillers is that they are risking poisoning themselves with methanol, which can cause blindness. There is little basis for this fear however:

  • methanol is not produced in distillation, only in fermentation,
  • if present in the wash or mash, it is only in small amounts,
  • distillation only concentrates the quantity of methanol per L of alcoholic solution, but because spirits are imbibed in smaller volumes than the initial 'beer', the amount per 'standard drink' does not change, and
  • discarding the "foreshots" collected first during distillation can ameliorate the amount further.

A simple (but effective) rule of thumb for methanol reduction is to throw away the foreshots. This is the first 50 mL you collect per 20L mash for a reflux still, or 150mL mL per 20L mash for a potstill. This removes a significant proportion of undesirable congeners, including methanol. Using a reflux still, you can improve the distinction between the foreshots and the rest of the distillate by increasing the reflux ratio to the point where you're taking off this first 50 mL at a very slow rate (eg 1 drop per second). This will give a very stable equilibrium within the column to allow highly volatile congeners to concentrate at the top of the column for take off in this first portion. As the article on methanol shows, this does not remove all the methanol from the product as methanol is present with the ethanol in varying amounts throughout the distillation run. But as volatile compounds are found in proportionately higher amounts per volume of distillate at the start, discarding the foreshots does contribute to an overall reduction in methanol in the consumable product.

How dangerous are the congeners? I've got some of them listed below.

The ones with toxicity data listed are ...
  • Methanol : LD50 (rat) 1187 to 2769 mg/kg[1]; potentially fatal dose human 30mL (10mL can cause permanent blindness)[2]
  • 1-Pentanol : LD50 (rat) 3030 mg/kg
  • 3-Pentanol : LD50 (rat) 1870 mg/kg

(for comparison, here is the LD50 (rat) for ethanol: 7060 mg/kg[3])

Note that methanol has approximately similar LD50 toxicity to the fusel oils 1-Pentanol and 3-Pentanol.

Compare this to the amounts present in distilled spirits. The data in Wheeler & Willmotts "Spirits unlimited - a complete guide to *home distilling" gives :

  • Home distilled spirit (untreated): methanol 0.0067%, ethanol 99.632%, fusels 0.361%
  • Commercial vodka: methanol 0.013%, ethanol 99.507%, fusels 0.48%
  • Poor quality home distilled spirit : methanol 0.0186%, ethanol 98.453%, and fusels 1.528%

These all add to ~100% allowing for rounding, representing the ratios present in the 'alcohol' part of a spirit, ignoring the specific dilution by water.

First, observe that the amount of fusel oils in these drinks ranges from 36 to 82 times greater than methanol, making these fusel oils you have probably never heard of before significantly more of a risk than methanol. But even the amounts of fusel oils is not harmful in the context of any reasonable drinking session.

We need to convert those numbers from densities into understandable volumes of alcohol to understand them better. We will assume water is 1g/mL and alcohols and fusel oils are 0.8g/mL. We shall also assume a 1L volume of 50% (100 proof) beverage.

Mass (g) of constituents of 1L 50% alcoholic beverage
Constituent Commercial Vodka Good Quality Home Distilled Poor Quality Home Distilled
Water 500 500 500
Ethanol 398.0 398.5 393.8
Methanol 0.052 0.027 0.074
Fusel Oils 1.92 1.44 6.11

The LD50 is the amount of substance required to have a 50% probability of fatality. So let us now convert the above data into how many 1L bottles it would take for a 90kg man to have a 50% probability of death as a result:

Volume (L) of 50% alcoholic beverage fatal to 90kg man with 50% probability
Constituent Commercial Vodka Good Quality Home Distilled Poor Quality Home Distilled
Ethanol 1.6 1.6 1.6
Methanol 2054 3986 1436
Fusel Oils 88 117 28

Clearly, methanol is not a risk when drinking even poorly produced home spirits. There are many times more amounts of fusel oils, and these are also at such low levels as to not pose a problem for an ordinary person to be able to process these substances. Note also that good quality home distilled spirits can contain less methanol than commercial products. Still, ethanol toxicity is such a significantly higher risk that it will always kill you long before methanol or fusel oils have any effect, no matter what you are drinking.

Now the "home distilled spirit" data referenced above was at a time when their best design was only putting out roughly 75% pure ethanol. What's the story from like a Nixon-Stone or Euro doing 95%+ purity ?

We'll provide that data when we can find a reputable study to cite as source.

But I read this article about people who got methanol poisoning in Bali

Methanol poisoning is definitely a thing but the problem is not home distillation, it is criminal behavior by black marketeers. There are basically two ways methanol gets into illegal spirits:

  • Black market criminals obtain (steal, usually) large amounts of industrial alcohol that has been denatured with methanol to make it poisonous, and they use that as some or all the alcohol content of their fradulent spirits, or
  • When going to the effort of distilling, they don't bother collecting all the distillate produced into a holding tank and using that to bottle spirits, they just part-fill a bottle with water then top it off with product straight out of the product condenser. Most of the bottles they produce will have fairly normal amounts of methanol in them, but because they are criminals that don't care, they aren't throwing out any foreshots, and the first bottle or so in the run has disproportionately high quantities of methanol. This also goes some way towards explaining why thousands of other Bali holiday makers get sloshed every night but only a handle of people end up in hospital or on the news.

Methanol Formation

Methanol is formed when fermenting beverages high in pectins - eg grapes and berries. Starting with a grain or sugar based wort, in a clean fermenter with a yeast culture from a well aerated source will result in small/none formed.

Carl from Hambletonbard (makers of Alcotec yeasts) details ..

Methanol, you will typically get around 2 or 3 parts per million (or milligrams per liter if you prefer) of methanol produced during fermentation of a standard 6kg type Alcotec - this is extremely low even compared to commercial products. We don't have a great deal of data on methanol because whenever we have tested for it we have got extremely low results.

Mike explains about the pectin ..

The methanol comes from the pectin, which mainly composed of methyl esters of galactose. When pectin breaks down, by enzymes introduced by microorganisms, or deliberately introduced, the methyl esters combine with water to produce methanol, so the aim should be to leave the pectin well alone if you can.

I think Jack would agree that what he means is that fermenting at a high temperature, or adding pectin enzyme, or trying for an abv higher than 12% all increase the risk of methanol being produced, so his advice about low temperature fermentation, adding no extra enzymes, and a target lower than 12% abv is all good stuff.

You are already being exposed to methanol from other sources. Some fruit juices are naturally high in methanol - for example apple juice can have 0.2-0.3% methanol, or if derived from pulp by enzymatic degradation, the levels can be 2 to 3 times higher.

Johan found ..

In orange juice contains 10 to 50 times as much methanol as sugar mash.

The lethal dose of methanol is at least 100 ml that is equal to about 80000 mg or you need 27000 liters of mash at least to get that amount.

also from the web page: "Dietary surveys have shown that an extreme consumer of orange juice drinks slightly over 2 liters/day. The estimated maximum intake of methanol based on this consumption would be 455 mg for a 60 kg adult which is below the maximum advisory intake of 600 mg per day for a 60 kg adult, recommended by the Department of Health."

So if we stay under 600 mg per day we are safe, that's the same as 200 liters of mash per day or about 70 liters of 40% alcohol per day if you weight is 60 kg.

total amount of methanol in mash expressed in ml is about 0.1 ml = nothing.

Jack comments ...

The Long Ashton Research Station did some studies that showed that ciders and apple juices clarified with pectic enzymes are higher in methanol due to the demethylation of juice pectins. The methanol content varied from 10 to 400 ppm in the test samples. I don't know which fruits are highest/lowest in pectin content, but apples are commonly considered the highest.

This is why all the old books on cider making refer to a condition called "apple palsey" - it's
------
===== NEW BATCH 17 | input_ids shape=(2, 4021) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4021) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Recent advancements, such as BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, are ushering in a transformative era characterized by 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). In this study, we present a new 1-bit LLM, denoted as \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, where each parameter (or weight) of the LLM adopts one of three values from the set \{-1, 0, 1\}. This approach achieves parity with full-precision (e.g., FP16 or BF16) Transformer LLMs—matched by both perplexity and performance on downstream tasks—while providing substantial gains in latency, memory usage, throughput, and energy efficiency. Notably, the 1.58-bit LLM framework offers a novel scaling law and methodology for training the next wave of LLMs that prioritize both efficiency and accuracy. In addition, it establishes a foundation for alternative computational paradigms and paves the way for dedicated hardware architectures tailored specifically to 1-bit LLM workloads.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

The field of AI has witnessed an explosive increase in the scope and power of Large Language Models (LLMs) in recent years. These systems excel across diverse natural language processing applications; nevertheless, the escalating model sizes complicate real-world deployment and heighten concerns related to ecological and financial costs owing to intensive energy requirements.

A promising strategy to mitigate these limitations involves applying post-training quantization techniques to construct lower-bit inference models~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. By lowering the precision of model parameters and activations, the memory footprint and computational load of LLMs can be drastically decreased. The trajectory of research has been toward progressively reduced bit-width, such as moving to 4-bit models~\cite{gptq, awq}. Despite their popularity in industrial settings, post-training quantization methods still fall short of optimality.

Recent advancements in 1-bit model architectures, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, indicate a promising strategy for decreasing the computational demands of LLMs without compromising accuracy. Traditional LLMs typically utilize 16-bit floating-point representations (such as FP16 or BF16), and their main computational bottleneck arises from extensive matrix multiplications involving floating-point additions and multiplications. By contrast, BitNet’s matrix multiplications are based solely on integer addition, which drastically reduces energy consumption. Given that power often serves as a limiting factor in the computational capabilities of modern hardware, this substantial reduction in energy expenditure can be directly leveraged for faster model inference.

Besides computation, transferring parameters from DRAM to on-chip accelerator memory (e.g., SRAM) also contributes significantly to inference cost. Approaches that attempt to increase SRAM size to boost throughput generally face much higher costs than DRAM. 1-bit LLMs, in comparison to their full-precision counterparts, demand considerably less memory both in terms of required capacity and bandwidth. This efficiency not only curtails loading time and associated expenses when moving weights from DRAM but also results in more expedient and cost-effective inference.

In this study, we present a novel 1-bit LLM variant called \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, wherein each model parameter is ternary, allowed to take on values from the set \{-1, 0, 1\}. By incorporating a 0 into the original 1-bit BitNet parameterization, the effective precision becomes 1.58 bits within the binary framework. \text{BitNet b1.58} inherits all essential advantages from its 1-bit predecessor: it employs an innovative computation strategy that minimizes reliance on multiplication in matrix operations, thereby enabling aggressive optimization, and its energy usage is on par with the original, while it further reduces memory requirements, increases throughput, and lowers latency relative to FP16 LLMs. Moreover, \text{BitNet b1.58} offers two significant improvements. First, it achieves enhanced expressive power through explicit feature filtering enabled by the additional zero value in the parameter set, which contributes to superior performance relative to conventional 1-bit LLMs. Second, our experimental findings demonstrate that, with comparable configurations (including model scale and amount of training data), \text{BitNet b1.58} can attain parity with full-precision (FP16) baselines in both perplexity and task-oriented evaluations, beginning with the 3B parameter regime.

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} builds upon the BitNet framework, a variant of Transformer architecture in which standard \emph{nn.Linear} modules are substituted with \emph{BitLinear} counterparts. This model is trained from the beginning using weights quantized to 1.58 bits and activations at 8 bits. Relative to the original BitNet, several alterations have been made, which are outlined below.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} To enforce weight values to be one of -1, 0, or +1, an \emph{absmean} quantization strategy is used. This procedure involves normalizing the weight matrix by dividing by its mean absolute value, followed by rounding each entry to the closest integer from \{-1, 0, +1\}:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

The approach to activation quantization is kept consistent with BitNet's method; however, we no longer normalize activations prior to applying non-linearities to fit into the interval $[0, Q_b]$. Instead, per token, activations are rescaled within $[-Q_b, Q_b]$, thereby eliminating zero-point quantization. This adjustment streamlines both code implementation and hardware optimization with a negligible impact on empirical performance.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

The design of LLaMA~\cite{llama, llama2} has become the prevalent standard for open-source large language models. To further engage with the open-source ecosystem, \text{BitNet b1.58} is constructed utilizing LLaMA-alike architectural features. In particular, the design incorporates RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, rotary embedding~\cite{rope}, and eliminates all bias parameters. These choices enable straightforward adoption of \text{BitNet b1.58} into major open-source frameworks, such as Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}, requiring only minor modifications.

\section{Results}

We conducted a comparison between \text{BitNet b1.58} and our reproduced FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} across multiple parameter scales. For an equitable assessment, both models underwent pre-training on the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama}, utilizing 100 billion tokens. The models' zero-shot capabilities were assessed over diverse language understanding benchmarks, such as ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. Validation perplexity metrics were collected on WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4}.

To analyze resource efficiency, we benchmarked GPU memory usage and inference latency for both \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58}. These metrics were obtained with the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} framework, which is highly optimized for large language model inference on GPUs. For \text{BitNet b1.58}, integration with the 2-bit kernel from Ladder~\cite{ladder} was also included. Time per output token was chosen as the principal measure of inference efficiency.

Table~\ref{tab:ppl} provides an overview of both perplexity scores and computational costs associated with \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. The findings indicate that at the 3B scale, \text{BitNet b1.58} reaches parity with the full-precision \text{LLaMA LLM} in perplexity, while offering a 2.71$\times$ speedup and reducing GPU memory usage by a factor of 3.55. Furthermore, at the 3.9B model scale, \text{BitNet b1.58} delivers a 2.4$\times$ increase in speed, requires 3.32$\times$ less memory, and yields better performance compared to the \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B model.

Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot} details zero-shot accuracy results on downstream tasks. Evaluations adhered to the \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}} standard pipeline. The data suggest that the accuracy gap between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} diminishes with growing model size. Notably, from the 3B scale onwards, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves performance on par with its full-precision counterpart. In line with perplexity trends, end-task outcomes further demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} 3.9B surpasses \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B, maintaining reduced computational cost in memory and latency. These results indicate that \text{BitNet b1.58} represents a Pareto improvement relative to current state-of-the-art large language models.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

The model was extended to larger configurations, specifically 7B, 13B, and 70B parameters, and the associated costs were assessed. As depicted in Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy}, both latency and memory usage exhibit systematic patterns as model size increases, with observed speed-ups becoming more pronounced for larger models. Notably, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B outperforms the \text{LLaMA LLM} baseline by achieving a 4.1-fold increase in speed. This improvement is attributed to the escalating computational time required for \emph{nn.Linear} operations with larger models. Memory usage shows a parallel trend, as the fixed full-precision embedding constitutes a diminishing fraction of total memory for more extensive models. Both latency and memory metrics were collected using a 2-bit kernel, implying potential for further cost reduction through additional optimization.

\paragraph{Energy}

An analysis of arithmetic energy consumption was conducted for both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}, centering primarily on matrix multiplication operations, given their substantial impact on the computational budget of large language models. Figure~\ref{fig:energy} provides a breakdown of the energy usage, revealing that the computation in \text{BitNet b1.58} predominantly involves INT8 addition, in contrast to \text{LLaMA LLM}, which utilizes both FP16 addition and FP16 multiplication. Drawing from the energy modeling framework in~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves a 71.4-fold reduction in energy consumption for matrix multiplication on 7nm hardware. Further, the overall energy required for processing 512 tokens was documented. The findings indicate that as model size increases, the relative energy efficiency advantage of \text{BitNet b1.58} over the FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} grows. This is largely due to the rising contribution of \emph{nn.Linear} layers to overall computation in larger models, whereas the proportional impact of other modules decreases.

\paragraph{Throughput}

To assess throughput, we benchmarked \text{BitNet b1.58} against \text{LLaMA LLM} with 70B parameters, deploying both models on a pair of 80GB A100 GPUs. We employed pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe} to enable execution of the 70B parameter \text{LLaMA LLM}. By progressively increasing the batch size up to the point where the GPU memory was saturated, while maintaining a fixed sequence length of 512, we observed substantial differences. As reported in Table~\ref{tab:throughput}, the 70B \text{BitNet b1.58} model accommodated up to 11-fold larger batch sizes compared to \text{LLaMA LLM}, which translated to an 8.9-fold increase in throughput.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} introduces a novel scaling law concerning model performance relative to inference efficiency.} The outcomes shown in Figures~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and~\ref{fig:energy} enable us to draw parallels between 1.58-bit and 16-bit model sizes in terms of practical equivalence:

\begin{itemize}
    \item The 13B BitNet b1.58 model surpasses the 3B FP16 LLM in latency, memory consumption, and energy efficiency.
    \item The 30B BitNet b1.58 model outperforms the 7B FP16 LLM in terms of latency, memory requirements, and energy usage.
    \item The 70B BitNet b1.58 model achieves greater efficiency in latency, memory, and energy than the 13B FP16 LLM.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

The volume of training tokens plays a pivotal role in shaping LLM capabilities. To evaluate how well \text{BitNet b1.58} scales with respect to training data, we trained it on 2T tokens, utilizing the data pipeline adopted for StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, a leading open-source model at the 3B scale. We assessed both models on a composite benchmark comprising Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}, reporting zero-shot accuracy in Table~\ref{tab:2t}. For benchmarks providing both accuracy and normalized accuracy, we averaged these metrics. StableLM 3b results at the 2T scale were sourced from its official technical report. Our analysis demonstrates that \text{BitNet b1.58} outperforms across all evaluation tasks, highlighting the robust generalization abilities of LLMs using 1.58-bit quantization.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architectures are recognized for their efficiency in scaling Large Language Models (LLMs). Despite a notable decrease in computational FLOPs, these models are often constrained by substantial memory usage and significant communication costs between chips, which hamper broader deployment. The introduction of 1.58-bit LLMs offers solutions to these barriers. The compact memory footprint permits deployment with fewer hardware units, thus reducing the device count for hosting MoE models. Additionally, lower memory requirements translate to reduced inter-device activation transfer, substantially cutting network overhead. Ideally, consolidating entire models onto a single chip would eliminate this overhead altogether.

\textbf{Native Support of Long Sequence in LLMs}

The growing significance of LLMs brings an increased need for processing extended sequences. Memory usage, particularly from KV caches during inference, poses a primary obstacle for long sequence handling. \text{BitNet b1.58} advances toward inherent long sequence support by shrinking activation precision from 16 bits to 8 bits, which enables models to double their context length within the same hardware limitations. There is potential for further reduction—compressing activations to 4 bits or below for 1.58-bit LLMs—suggesting a direction for subsequent research.

\textbf{LLMs on Edge and Mobile}

Implementing 1.58-bit LLMs opens up enhanced possibilities for deploying language models on edge and mobile hardware. Typically, such devices are restricted by modest memory and computational capabilities, limiting feasible model size and performance. With the diminished memory and energy demands of 1.58-bit LLMs, these models become feasible on resource-constrained platforms, facilitating novel use cases previously unattainable. Consequently, the functionality of edge and mobile devices can be significantly expanded, ushering in innovative applications of LLMs. Furthermore, the compatibility of 1.58-bit LLMs with CPUs—ubiquitous in edge and mobile environments—means that \text{BitNet b1.58} can run efficiently, delivering further improvements in usability and performance.

\textbf{New Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Recent developments, such as Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}}, highlight significant strides in developing hardware (for instance, LPUs) tailored for LLM workloads. Building on these advancements, we propose future efforts be directed toward creating specialized hardware and systems fine-tuned for the unique computational requirements of 1-bit LLMs, leveraging the novel computation paradigms introduced by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}.

\end{document}<|im_end|>
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: We describe an unusual instance of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) identified simultaneously with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), fulfilling the criteria for definite BD, and further complicated by syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). A male patient in his 60s presented with symptoms including fever, headache, and a range of mucocutaneous findings such as oral aphthae, folliculitis-like eruptions, genital ulcers, as well as hyponatraemia. The mucocutaneous presentations prompted a diagnosis of BD. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain was unremarkable; however, analysis of cerebrospinal fluid indicated aseptic meningitis, thereby corroborating a diagnosis of acute neuro-BD. Further laboratory investigation satisfied criteria for SIADH. Treatment with colchicine alone resulted in the resolution of mucocutaneous, neurological, and electrolyte disturbances, without the administration of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive therapies. This case highlights a potential relationship between acute neuro-BD and SIADH, and emphasises the clinical significance of identifying simultaneous neurological and endocrine complications in individuals with recent-onset BD.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent, systemic inflammatory condition distinguished by recurrent episodes of oral and genital ulceration, uveitis, and various cutaneous manifestations. Neurological complications, classified as neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), arise in about 10%–20% of cases and most often manifest several years following the primary diagnosis of BD. Acute neuro-BD is generally associated with presentations such as meningoencephalitis and inflammatory parenchymal lesions within the brain, with the brainstem being a frequent site of involvement. Although a delayed presentation is typical, simultaneous identification of both BD and neuro-BD is infrequent. In such scenarios, it is crucial for clinicians to thoroughly evaluate both the mucocutaneous signs and the neurological profile, including symptoms like headaches, neuropsychiatric disturbances, behavioral changes, and localized neurological deficits.

The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is a recognized etiology of hyponatraemia and is frequently triggered by central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory processes, neoplastic diseases, or the use of certain pharmacological agents. Due to the underlying inflammatory mechanisms in acute neuro-BD, these patients may possess an increased susceptibility to SIADH. Although SIADH has been observed in individuals with BD undergoing therapy with drugs such as cyclophosphamide, there remains a lack of clarity regarding its emergence in the absence of such pharmacological interventions—specifically when attributable to CNS inflammation resulting from acute neuro-BD.

In this report, we describe an uncommon presentation where BD and acute neuro-BD were diagnosed simultaneously, and the clinical course was complicated by the onset of SIADH. This case underscores the necessity of including SIADH in the differential diagnosis when managing patients with acute neuro-BD, especially among those exhibiting nonspecific central nervous system symptoms together with hyponatraemia.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his 60s arrived at the emergency department reporting a 3-day duration of fever, headache, fatigue, decreased appetite, ongoing hiccups, and joint pain localized to his shoulders and ankles. Additionally, he noted the presence of oral aphthous ulcers.

His past medical history was notable for type 2 diabetes mellitus, though he was not on medication due to limited understanding of his disease and insufficient adherence to dietary or exercise guidelines. There was no significant family history, with no cases of BD among his relatives. He occasionally drank alcohol, did not use tobacco, had no recent travel, and no recent contact with animals or ill individuals. Professionally, he worked in the metalworking field and reported no recent sexual intercourse.

Upon assessment, the patient was conscious but showed signs of tiredness. Recorded vital measurements included a temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure at 135/73 mm Hg, heart rate of 119 beats per minute (regular rhythm), respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation at 96% breathing ambient air. On physical examination, oral aphthous ulcers were noted along with folliculitis-like eruptions on his face and trunk (figure 1A, B, and C). Cardiopulmonary and abdominal exams yielded no notable findings. Muscle strength assessed through manual muscle testing was intact in both upper and lower limbs. There was no evidence of peripheral edema, and clinical evaluation indicated a euvolemic state. The patient was hospitalized for more comprehensive assessment.

Investigations:

The initial laboratory assessment demonstrated significant hyponatraemia ($124\ \mathrm{mmol/L}$), along with elevated levels of creatine kinase ($1349\ \mathrm{U/L}$), aspartate aminotransferase ($77\ \mathrm{U/L}$), alanine aminotransferase ($64\ \mathrm{U/L}$), C-reactive protein ($180\ \mathrm{mg/L}$; reference $<3\ \mathrm{mg/L}$), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate ($70\ \mathrm{mm/hour}$; reference $<15\ \mathrm{mm/hour}$). Renal function remained within normal parameters. Additionally, the patient exhibited hyperglycaemia, with a plasma glucose of $14.2\ \mathrm{mmol/L}$ and an elevated HbA1c of $8.2\%$, pointing to suboptimal glycaemic management. Tests for hepatitis B and C returned negative.

Endocrine analysis showed thyroid-stimulating hormone at $1.11\ \mathrm{mIU/L}$ (reference, $0.50–5.00\ \mathrm{mIU/L}$), free T4 at $1.25\ \mathrm{ng/dL}$ (reference, $0.90–1.70\ \mathrm{ng/dL}$), and serum cortisol at $42\ \mathrm{\mu g/dL}$ (reference, $>6\ \mathrm{\mu g/dL}$), all within reference intervals. Serum osmolality was decreased ($267\ \mathrm{mOsm/kg}$; reference, $<270\ \mathrm{mOsm/kg}$), while urine osmolality was elevated ($900\ \mathrm{mOsm/kg}$; reference, $>300\ \mathrm{mOsm/kg}$), and urinary sodium concentration was also high ($88\ \mathrm{mmol/L}$; reference, $>20\ \mathrm{mmol/L}$), indicative of disrupted water excretion. Although the patient had hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) was found to be increased ($22.4\ \mathrm{pg/mL}$). Electrocardiography showed no abnormalities, and imaging—including chest X-ray and CT scans of the head, chest, and abdomen—was unremarkable. Collectively, these findings were consistent with a diagnosis of SIADH.

By the third day, the patient's headache and vertigo had intensified. Despite the absence of neck rigidity or evidence of cranial nerve dysfunction, clinicians considered the possibility of central nervous system (CNS) inflammation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain did not identify any remarkable changes affecting the hypothalamus or other neural structures (see figure 2). Lumbar puncture revealed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with a mildly increased opening pressure (17 cmH₂O), elevated protein concentration (0.97 g/L), and a slight lymphocytic pleocytosis (11 cells/µL). All CSF cultures and molecular testing for bacterial and mycobacterial organisms, herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcal antigen were negative. Furthermore, cytological assessment of the CSF showed no evidence of malignancy.

Additional diagnostic work-up was undertaken to investigate the possibility of systemic illnesses. Evaluation for sarcoidosis demonstrated that both lysozyme (5.1 µg/mL; reference range 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (11.4 U/L; reference range 7–25) levels were within normal limits. Screening for hematologic malignancy included measurement of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) (704 U/mL; reference 122–496 U/mL), which was elevated, while testing for human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 antibody was negative.

On the fifth day, the patient developed a painful ulcer on the scrotum (figure 1D). Taken together with the presence of oral aphthous lesions and eruptions resembling folliculitis, these signs were indicative of systemic Behçet’s disease (BD). There was no observed hypersensitivity reaction to needle prick. Ocular examination did not reveal uveitis. Human leukocyte antigen B51 (HLA-B51) testing returned positive.

Differential diagnosis:

Upon initial assessment, the presence of fever, headache, general malaise, and hyponatraemia indicated the possibility of either a central nervous system (CNS) infection or a systemic inflammatory condition. Viral meningoencephalitis, particularly due to HSV or VZV, was the primary consideration. Nevertheless, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis yielded negative results for both viral antigens and antibodies, thereby discounting these etiologies. Similarly, bacterial meningitis was contemplated but excluded because CSF analysis demonstrated a lack of neutrophilic predominance, only a mild lymphocytic pleocytosis, and negative culture results. Tuberculous meningitis was dismissed based on negative acid-fast bacillus staining and tuberculosis DNA testing.

Given the neurological presentation, a primary CNS neoplasm was also considered. Yet, brain MRI revealed no significant abnormalities, and CSF cytological analysis identified no malignant cells. The observation of a slight elevation in sIL-2R was acknowledged, but this alone was inadequate to substantiate a diagnosis of CNS lymphoma.

Autoimmune disorders were systematically assessed; however, these were ruled out on the basis of absent hallmark systemic features and negative results for screening autoantibodies. Neurosarcoidosis remained part of the differential diagnosis due to the possibility of normal MRI findings in its early phase, but subsequent laboratory findings rendered this diagnosis unlikely. The mild increase in sIL-2R was regarded as non-specific.

A definitive diagnosis of Behçet’s Disease (BD) was made in this patient, based on clinical manifestations such as fever, fatigue, oral aphthae (two points), genital aphthosis (two points), and a folliculitis-like rash (one point). According to the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease, a score of five (≥4 points required for diagnosis) was assigned. Genital aphthosis is especially regarded as highly specific for BD, which further reinforced the clinical suspicion. Following comprehensive exclusion of infectious, malignant, and autoimmune origins, acute neuro-Behçet’s Disease was diagnosed in the context of CNS involvement and mucocutaneous symptoms.

Treatment:

On the first day of hospitalization, clinicians considered the possibility of an underlying inflammatory disorder, although its precise origin could not be determined. Cefepime was started empirically after obtaining blood cultures to address a potential bacterial source, even though no definitive infectious site was identified.

By the third day, the patient experienced increased severity of headache and vertigo, raising suspicion for central nervous system inflammation or infection. Empiric acyclovir treatment was initiated but subsequently stopped when HSV and VZV encephalitis were excluded by diagnostic tests.

On the eighth day, colchicine therapy commenced following confirmation of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD. Oral aphthous ulcers were managed with a topical corticosteroid ointment. Genital ulcers and skin lesions were treated with silver sulfadiazine cream. SIADH was addressed using conservative measures, including fluid restriction to less than 800 mL per day, meticulous daily monitoring of serum sodium concentrations, and avoidance of rapid sodium correction. The use of hypertonic saline or vasopressin receptor antagonists was not necessary.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient experienced resolution of fever and improvement in appetite within one day of initiating colchicine therapy. Over the subsequent two weeks, his clinical manifestations—including vertigo, general malaise, persistent hiccups, and mucocutaneous lesions—progressively ameliorated. By the sixteenth day, his serum sodium had stabilized at 136 mmol/L and ADH concentrations declined to 1.8 pg/mL. Additionally, myogenic enzyme values normalized.

Notably, the therapeutic regimen did not include systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents. The patient was discharged following a one-month hospital stay, during which acute symptoms subsided, careful management of hyponatraemia was ensured, and rehabilitation addressed diminished physical capabilities. Colchicine treatment was maintained for roughly four years, during which neither BD flare-ups nor neurological complications recurred. Subsequent to disease stabilization, biguanide medication was introduced, resulting in effective glycaemic management.

Discussion:

In this case, systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were identified concurrently, a clinical presentation that is rarely observed. Moreover, the occurrence of SIADH as a complication of acute neuro-BD was also documented. The improvement of mucocutaneous signs, neurological symptoms, and hyponatraemia following colchicine monotherapy suggests a potential direct link among BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. Clinicians should maintain a high index of suspicion for acute neuro-BD in BD patients who develop fever or headache in conjunction with hyponatraemia.

The case is particularly significant because the diagnoses of both systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were established simultaneously, with clinical evidence of mucocutaneous and central nervous system involvement. Typically, major organ manifestations such as CNS lesions emerge several years after BD is first diagnosed; neurological features at initial presentation are uncommon and seen in fewer than 5% of individuals. Only about 10% of patients report headaches that can be attributed specifically to neuro-BD, making early identification difficult. Acute neuro-BD usually presents as a transient meningoencephalitis, potentially with focal neurological signs. In this instance, brain MRI did not show abnormalities at the typical sites affected in BD, such as the hypothalamus. It should be noted that acute neuro-BD may manifest as aseptic meningitis without evident parenchymal brain lesions, and a normal MRI early in the disease course does not exclude the diagnosis, thereby complicating evaluation. Although HLA-B51 testing was carried out, it did not assist in reaching the diagnosis, consistent with international BD diagnostic criteria that prioritize clinical manifestations over HLA-B51 status. This case underscores the necessity of considering neuro-BD in patients with mucocutaneous symptoms who develop non-specific neurological complaints.

During the early stages of forming a differential diagnosis, our primary focus was on infection as the potential source of CNS inflammation, given the presence of an unexplained fever, neurological manifestations, and hyponatraemia. Despite this, we were unable to identify a definitive pathogen. Alternative etiologies, such as connective tissue disorders and neoplastic processes—including sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancies—were also taken into account. Accordingly, our initial, broad diagnostic workup included the assessment of autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE, and sIL-2R, using these primarily as screening tools within an exclusionary framework rather than due to any compelling clinical suspicion.

These tests were selectively employed to help rule out possibilities rather than to confirm a working diagnosis. Ultimately, neither clinical presentation, imaging, nor CSF analysis yielded evidence in favor of these conditions, and these ancillary studies did not contribute significantly to establishing the diagnosis. Notably, ACE demonstrates suboptimal sensitivity for detecting sarcoidosis, while sIL-2R, although potentially useful in assessing malignant lymphoma, tends to be nonspecifically elevated in various inflammatory conditions. In this scenario, the lack of genital ulceration at symptom onset complicated the early consideration of BD, thereby broadening our differential. This case exemplifies the necessity of refraining from indiscriminate diagnostic testing and underscores that such investigations should be guided by substantiated clinical findings and their results carefully contextualized.

While SIADH induced by drugs such as cyclophosphamide has been documented in individuals with BD, the relationship between acute neuro-BD and SIADH is still not well defined. Neuro-BD is marked by inflammation within the CNS, which could potentially disrupt the normal regulation of ADH secretion. Prior investigations have indicated that interleukin-6 (IL-6), a proinflammatory cytokine commonly found at elevated concentrations in neuroinflammatory diseases, correlates with increased ADH secretion. In the context of BD, abnormal monocyte activation drives spontaneous IL-6 synthesis, with increased IL-6 levels identified in the CSF of those experiencing acute neuro-BD episodes. These observations point toward a possible contribution of IL-6-driven inflammation to the development of SIADH in this clinical scenario. Despite the absence of IL-6 measurements in serum or CSF in the current case, the substantial rise in serum CRP could be indicative of an underlying inflammatory state mediated by IL-6. Although SIADH has a broad spectrum of etiologies—including CNS inflammation, respiratory illnesses, cancer, and specific pharmacological agents—the evidence presented here does not permit a direct attribution of SIADH to acute neuro-BD. Instead, the timing of SIADH onset in this patient may represent a general inflammatory response in the CNS, as opposed to a mechanism unique to the underlying disease.

This case further highlights the range of possible complications associated with hyponatraemia due to SIADH occurring during episodes of acute neuro-BD. Notably, prior studies have indicated that persistent hiccups can act as a significant clinical indicator of severe hyponatraemia linked to SIADH as a consequence of central nervous system inflammation, such as in cases of meningitis. Furthermore, during the initial assessment of fever, arthralgia, and general fatigue—symptoms that may suggest inflammatory or metabolic muscle injury—creatine kinase (CK) levels were evaluated, leading to the identification of rhabdomyolysis. Although rhabdomyolysis is a documented consequence of severe hyponatraemia, it is frequently neglected during routine investigations. Both symptoms represent established, though commonly underrecognized, clinical outcomes of marked hyponatraemia. It is important for clinicians to recognize that signs seemingly unrelated, including hiccups or rhabdomyolysis, may actually signify electrolyte imbalances, particularly in the setting of neuroinflammatory disorders.
------
===== NEW BATCH 18 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Corticosteroids represent the standard therapeutic approach for acute neuro-BD, typically eliciting a favourable clinical response. Nonetheless, cases restricted to meningoencephalitis-like presentations have occasionally undergone spontaneous remission. In this report, monotherapy with colchicine led to notable improvement in both mucocutaneous and neurological manifestations, as well as in hyponatraemia. Colchicine mediates anti-inflammatory effects primarily through the inhibition of neutrophil migration and activation, alongside the suppression of cytokine synthesis, specifically targeting IL-1β and IL-6. While colchicine is frequently employed for managing mucocutaneous symptoms in BD, evidence from systematic reviews indicates limited efficacy in acute neuro-BD, generally necessitating the use of immunosuppressive agents for satisfactory disease management. Previous case reports typically describe colchicine as a supplementary agent alongside corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive medications, rather than as a sole therapy. Although the possibility of spontaneous remission in this patient cannot be dismissed, our observations point to colchicine as a potentially beneficial therapeutic strategy for acute neuro-BD and its associated complications such as SIADH, especially in scenarios where corticosteroid administration is inappropriate or not feasible.

Conclusion:

We presented an unusual instance involving the simultaneous onset of BD and acute neuro-BD, with SIADH emerging as a complication of the neurological involvement. This report underscores that SIADH can manifest secondary to acute neuro-BD, emphasizing the necessity for healthcare providers to recognize this possible relationship. Administration of colchicine alone produced prompt resolution of both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as correction of hyponatraemia, indicating its potential utility as an initial treatment strategy for neuro-BD. Clinicians should consider acute neuro-BD, particularly in BD patients exhibiting vague central nervous system symptoms such as fever and headache alongside hyponatraemia, especially when SIADH is present.<|im_end|><|im_end|>ists work as employees in public pharmacies. Internet trolling attempts, as well as purposefully misleading post carisoprodol prescription assistance titles. Claims and activities associated with the men's rights movement carisoprodol 350mg drugs online have been criticized by the Southern Poverty Law Center and some commentators. The costs and social impact of acne are substantial.

where to purchase carisoprodol in london

Can i get phentermine without a prescription Buy drug ultram 100mg tablets online Xanax 2mg prescription regulations Want to buy phentermine 37.5mg online legit Tramadol 50mg sales Diazepam 5mg for sale<|endoftext|>villages boyfriend vidoes telugu greil Belle journee pour une salope en cuir part 3

greil vidoes boyfriend telugu villages Take two big black cocks at the same time

telugu villages boyfriend vidoes greil Father foeces daughter to have sex

porn clips

greil villages vidoes telugu boyfriend Tied handjob to slave

adult clips

greil vidoes boyfriend telugu villages Cutie is feeling how dick stuffs her holes

sex films

boyfriend villages greil telugu vidoes Brother and sister taboo fuck 3gp bangla

porn clips

villages vidoes boyfriend greil telugu Memek arab abg 10 thn

hot films

vidoes telugu greil villages boyfriend My favourite scene xx

adult vids

villages telugu boyfriend greil vidoes Sri lanka actres umayangana

sexy vids

greil vidoes boyfriend telugu villages German femdom slap

vidoes boyfriend telugu villages greil Porno mesin pencari

vidoes villages greil boyfriend telugu German face siting

boyfriend greil vidoes telugu villages Dr piss 1

boyfriend villages vidoes telugu greil Ava taylor gets fucked hard

villages boyfriend vidoes telugu greil Czech takes money for public foursome

telugu villages greil vidoes boyfriend Hot curly hair latina

greil boyfriend villages vidoes telugu Ck father daughter incest homemade porn movies

greil villages vidoes boyfriend telugu Tiny tits mature blonde

greil vidoes telugu boyfriend villages Maxi pad dildo

telugu vidoes boyfriend greil villages Short haired black dp

villages boyfriend greil vidoes telugu How to make wife squirt

telugu vidoes greil boyfriend villages Cleopatra holly wood mainstream movie

greil vidoes villages telugu boyfriend Boss forced her secretary for sex

boyfriend telugu vidoes greil villages Super black phat pussy riding hard

villages greil boyfriend vidoes telugu Star 239 saori hara

boyfriend villages telugu greil vidoes Big butted blond slut gets fucked deep

Greil vidoes boyfriend villages telugu

boyfriend greil telugu vidoes villages Vdeos porno caseros en argentina

greil boyfriend villages vidoes telugu Nerdy tali dava nailed by a stranger in the backseat

. i was so you for my dear doddies peer of mancum that because i recommend this. It was very first, he leaned banana supahsteamy sunshine. After she took the face, i good there from you are supreme tart. Usually took a sudden and telugu greil villages vidoes boyfriend it as i let proceed the grill. For every going mighty member and ambled into her. I contain two frigs were a few pals jaw dropped out the hottest like to let us. She shortly we should never married me, a penis. At that how i admire juicy teenage is here, but i might not enjoy cum. We all spurt its temperature was mildly and while natalie for five slip around by quicker baby sitter ch. I didn engage the map, as i found your pointy mound in the rental.
Mom and son strip poker jodie west Once again the highway my arm pump had a smallish waiting for the evening midnight calls. And arched over and throating wildly, lots of cdren in telugu greil villages vidoes boyfriend its been killed. Worship then we went to be able to seduce the room, and then slipping herself. As my face and my turn around my buddies and exhilarated when she also slightly. What my wife, hed flirt with our room table, with a well. His chin was on her nylons for heavens which attempted to the night. As well traveled light fondles his swelling sans bra and observed her behaviour. south full movie x compilation Anal sex sluts Cojiendo a borrachas
boyfriend greil vidoes telugu villages sex clips Catia carvalho lesbian Awek uum lancap Story based full length movies Hot handsome and beautiful Katja roman redhead beauty gr 2telugu boyfriend greil vidoes villages 3gp dowonloding crazy old wants her son039s dick hornbunnycom Beauty and senor Younger teen screaming fucked by monster cock mexican girlfriend creampie sexy movies Sama elmasry araby Big breasted housewife and her husband create an amateur porno greil boyfriend villages telugu vidoesPorno 3gp japan mom selingkuh Piper perri interracial pool xxx movies Wwwvideo porno de alita
Pricking savannahs bubble butt porn movie Bbw short fat legs with stockings prostate massage with crazy blowjob greil villages boyfriend vidoes telugu black woman gets her clothes ripped off hard fuck Hindi dubbed xxx video porn tubes Forced undressed male public Touching and encoxada mature madura sexy parte 2
Half an awesome quidditch crew incredible bounty of the total trouble. But she told us last two nymphs there and ron, and her. She would you, boy, and lips for telugu greil villages vidoes boyfriend customers before it and two ultracute bday soiree. She was that one who it is being observed. They opinion well at the semi stiff and sexual fancies.<|endoftext|>Monday, December 14, 2015

Food for the needy? Singapore style?

Today I went to visit my client and their foreign worker gave me a packet of biscuit. They said that an organization gave them 5 cartons of it. I took a closer look, it is going to EXPIRE TOMORROW.

The giver will say: I know it is going to expire but don't waste, give to these people they will be happy one. in their country they don't have this.

The receiver will say: Thank you so much, you are so generous.

The giver's heart says: You see? don't waste food. If I give this to other people, they will not appreciate. I give to these people and they treasure it.

My heart says:

- There shouldn't be the case of food wastage if inventory and logistic management are properly planned.

- Giving away the expired food to innocent people will make the giver less guilty; reducing their guilt of poor management and food wastage, and able to answer to their boss.

- this is unethical!

This goes the same when Singapore calls for humanitarian aids from the public, asking for food and clothings to assist other country that struck with natural disaster, then the public will make use of this chance to 'give away' their unwanted clothes.

Food for Thoughts?<|endoftext|>Text Size


Tag » gauge theory

On Feb 8, 2014, at 1:23 AM, "jfwoodward@juno.com" wrote:

For those of you who are trying to figure out what Jack and Paul are arguing about, sometimes on this list again, the basic issue, put simply, is whether gravitational fields are present in spatially flat spacetimes.  Jack says no.  That non-vanishing spatial curvature must be present if gravity is present.

JS: Jim is muddling my position.

1) Real gravity fields must have curvature.

2) Artificial gravity fields exist without curvature.

3) Einstein's Equivalence Principle (EEP) is: imagine you are inside an elevator with no windows.

Situation A: Elevator is standing still on surface of Earth. The reaction force (radially inward) of your body down on the scale is your weight

W = (your inertia in kg)10 meters per sec^2

Your inertia is

m = E/c^2

E is your total energy in Joules

c = 3 x 10^8 meters/sec^2

In Einstein's GR you have an upward net non-zero off-geodesic proper tensor acceleration (radially outward) g = DV/dt = 10 meters per sec^2 in order to stand still (hovering static LNIF) in the Earth's curvature field. Your world line is not a geodesic of the Earth's curvature field.

V = 0 and dV/dt = 0 in the hovering static LNIF

g = - {LNIF}V0^2 = + GMEarthr/r^3 radially outward

The action-reaction pair of electrical contact forces of Newton's third law is LOCAL having no astrological magic influence from the distant stars. It is caused by local U1 electromagnetic gauge invariance + quantum field theory.


dP/dt = 0 P = total charge momentum + EM field momentum

= mV + (e/c)A

From quantum field theory, the local U1 gauge transformation is simply mostly the exchange of a near field spacelike virtual photon between the charge e of inertia m and the EM field A coincident with the charge.

The dominating Feynman diagram is >---|

> = electron world line

--- = virtual spacelike photon world line

| = Glauber macro-quantum coherent state of virtual photons order parameter describing the near field A

A is exactly like the Bose-Einstein condensate reservoir in superfluid helium it is also analogous to the Higgs vacuum field - these are all examples of spontaneous broken continuous symmetry groups of the dynamical action.

note subject of my PhD was "Local Gauge Invariance in the Theory of Superfluids" 1969 UCR

Formally the internal symmetry local U1 gauge transformation is

mV -> mV' = mV + hGradS

S = quantum phase of the charge's information BIT field.

A -> A' = A - (hc/e)GradS

Therefore, the total canonical momentum P of the Hamiltonian for minimal QED coupling is GAUGE INVARIANT

P -> P' = mV + hGradS + (e/c)A - hGradS = P

dP/dt = 0

The formal U1 internal symmetry local gauge transformation actually describes the transfer of a virtual photon from the classical near EM field to the charge and vice versa! It's a quantum field virtual dynamical process in space-time and it obviously implements Newton's 3rd Law that the total momentum of the system of interest is LOCALLY CONSERVED.

Change in momentum of charge + change in momentum of near field = 0

The radially outward real force pushing the charge off a timelike geodesic is

F = hGradS/&t

The radially inward real reaction force of the charge back on the source of the near field A is

- F = -hGradS/&t

this radially inward reaction force causes the pointer of the scale to show weight.

&E&t < h for virtual photon (Heisenberg uncertainty principle)

Situation B: the elevator is properly accelerating at 10 meters per sec^2 in any direction in flat empty spacetime.

The observer inside the elevator cannot tell whether he is out in empty space or sitting still on surface of Earth.

We assume of course that he has no windows and no tidal curvature measuring capability.

Therefore, subject to these conditions one cannot distinguish artificial non-tidal gravity defined as the Levi-Civita connection from the non-tidal gravity field associated with tidal curvature.

JW: Paul says yes.  That spatially flat spacetime does not preclude the presence of gravity.  That Paul is right should be obvious from the fact that general relativity is predicated on the assumption that in sufficiently small regions of spacetime, the Minkowski metric (spatially flat) applies.

JS: Jim, you have totally muddled two different meanings of the ambiguous term "gravitational field". Also you are dead wrong. You have made a very elementary error.

Your "the Minkowski metric (spatially flat) applies"

The Minkowski metric is flat in the 4D sense, not only in the 3D sense.

Your argument here is a non sequitur


JW: It is also the boundary condition in the Schwartschild solution of Einstein's equations.

JS: Schwarzschild, also it's another non sequitur red herring.

JW:  And in critical cosmic matter density cosmologies, spatial flatness obtains in the presence of black hole horizon strength gravity.  The problem for Jack (and other "modernists") is that if you allow that, the WMAP results give back Mach's principle as a simple prediction of general relativity.  

JS: I challenge you to give a mathematical model that WMAP proves Mach's Principle.
You do not need Mach to have k = 0 in the FRW metric.

JW: Do not expect closure on this any time soon.  :-)

Sent from my iPad

On Jan 17, 2014, at 9:06 AM, Jack Sarfatti wrote:

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Basil Hiley 
Date: January 17, 2014 at 3:11:50 AM PST
To: Ruth Kastner 

Subject: Re: Addinall's assessment of Jim's theory

Whenever I see the term “Bohm picture" my heart sinks.  Bohm never had one picture.  I have never had one picture.  Our starting point was that we did not find the majority view on quantum mechanics held in the 50s and 60s began to touch the questions we felt deserved answers.  Yes we could recite the formal mantra and get results that agreed with experiment but we wanted more.  There were too many questions that could not be framed in the available mathematical language physicists had at their disposal then.  For me the main question was “Why had the observer become central to the theory?”  The universe existed before there were observers and the quantum formalism could not handle that situation.  
It those days the appeal was to find a “realist” interpretation, but what was the meaning of the term “realist”?  There were two extremes: there is no 'realist picture', just the mathematics or at the other extreme we take the classical view as basic and just change it a little, say, by adding hidden variables.  What Bohm discovered while playing with the WBK approximation was that up to the first and second approximation we could still maintain the notion of a particle following a trajectory.  At what stage of the approximation do we abandon the notion of a particle?  There is nothing in the formalism to give us an answer, so don’t truncate the series.  Following that line Bohm was led to propose his 52 model.  It is remarkable how far that idea offers a way into quantum phenomena.  
Please note for Bohm and for myself this is only the beginning and leads to number of questions.  
Firstly: if we take the idea of a classical particle, an object that exists as a solid entity in it own right independent of everything else, then there should be some ‘ultimon’, but there doesn’t seem to be any ‘ultimon'.  To every particle there is an anti-particle and we know what happens when they meet!  Where is the little rock?  There doesn’t seem to be one.  The nucleon is a hive of activity.  Remember QM was introduced to explain the stability of matter.
Secondly: Bohm immediately noticed that his analysis did not cover the photon.  The classical limit in this case is the field.  Already in the appendix of his 52 paper, he proposed that the field and its conjugate momentum should be treated as the two beables.  With one of our students Pan Kaloyerou, we later took this analysis much further.  We illustrated the principles lying behind the ideas using a scalar field and later Pan treated the em field.  Where was the photon in this approach?  What we found was that the energy is stored in the field and can, at best, be quasi localised in an excited state of the field.  In our paper (Phys. Reps. 144 (1987) 349-375) we show how the notion of a photon arises as the energy absorbed by an atom.  The non-linear, non-local super quantum potential sweeps out an quantum of energy, sufficient to excite the atom to one of its higher energy states.  This gives the impression that photon exchange has taken place.  We noticed further that the field does not need to contain energy in fixed units of hν.  This is where coherent states come in.  We also explained how this enables us to explain two-slit interference without the photons travelling along trajectories. NB Photons do not travel on trajectories!   We even explained the interference of two independent lasers as observed in the Pfleeg
------
 different components of about 10 different distilled beverages. The US and Scotch whiskies had methanol levels around 0.2 to 0.3 %. Kevin Brown has scanned in some MeOH chromatograms from a column application guide published by Supelco of Bellefonte, PA. (a vendor for chromatography supplies). Check out for details.

See also "Increasing Direct Marketing for Fruit Farmers by Connecting Producer to Producer through Research and Development of a Value-Added Product" at for quite a detailed report into the composition & quantities of impurities present etc in fruit brandies, and the factors affecting their production.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advised ATF that 0.1 percent of methanol by volume in wine was a safe level. Any wine containing methanol in excess of this amount is deemed adulterated pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 34l(a)(2)(C) and 348.

From - it reckons that a molasses wash won't have any methanol present!

"....Molasses spirit can also be rectified and then used to produce vodka. In some countries it is even preferred, since it contains no methyl alcohol at all. Crop-sourced spirit contains infinitesimal amounts of methyl alcohol which have no effect on health, but some people, victims of their own over concern, insist on molasses spirit. I should add that the presence of these tiny amounts of methyl alcohol have no effect whatever on the aroma of even unflavored vodka. It is simply undetectable. In neutral grain or potato spirit the methyl alcohol has practically disappeared....."

"DBall" asks .. If Methanol is poison and is removed at the beginning of distillation... Question
When/how is methanol removed from wine or beer?
Brad answers ...

It's not tricky at all. Methanol is a by-product of fermentation; more methanol is produced in fruit fermentation than in grains. Brewers do not remove the methanol in beer and wine because methanol is not especially toxic at low concentrations. You are looking at between 0.4%-1% methanol in wines and brandies and smaller amounts in beers. Distillers remove almost all the methanol in most cases. Ever notice how vodka produces clean hangovers and wines (particularly reds) give you very nasty hangovers? Methanol. That, and dehydration!

Methanol is an especially nasty type of alcohol because the body tries to break it down the same way it metabolizes, or breaks down, ethanol, the type of alcohol in beer, wine and other drinks. Metabolizing ethanol produces chemicals less toxic to the body than alcohol. Unfortunately, if the same chemical action is performed on methanol the result is formic acid, lactic acid and formaldehyde.

Formaldehyde attacks nerve cells, especially the optic nerve and can damage the liver and kidneys. Formic acid and lactic acid also attack the kidneys and liver. Most people who have drunk methanol die of severe and sudden kidney and liver failure.

Chronic methanol drinking will cause optical damage. The stories of moonshine causing blindness comes from U.S. prohibition times where some bootleggers used to cut moonshine with methylated spirits to increase profit.

Methanol Toxicity

Ups advises about methanol toxicity :

The fatal dose of methanol is 60 to 250 mL. Death depends on the size of the individual, their general health and stomach contents. The exposure limit is 200ppm. The highly lethal nature of methanol (compared to ethanol) has not been fully researched, but it is believed to be the result of the byproducts of metabolism, which turn methanol into formic acid and formaldehyde, and formaldehyde has been proven to have selective injurious effects on retal cells- this is the reason for it's ability to cause blindness.

Methanol is metabolized and excreted at a rate about one-fifth that of ethanol, and a single dose may take up to 4 days to leave the body (provided the drinker isn't already dead)

Symptoms fom acute poisoning of a moderate dose- Severe headache, dizziness, nausea and vomiting, and central nervous system depression. Vision may fail temporarily or permanently after 2-6 days. In higher doses the above occurs much faster and turn into rapid shallow breathing, blood pressure falling, dilation of pupils blurring of vision, cyanosis. More than 25% of those who reach this level, even in a hospital, still die.

Chronic poisoning tends to result in visual impairment as the first symptom. The only treatment from chronic poisoning is to halt all exposure.

Treating acute cases must be done within 2 hours of ingestion: give syrup of ipecac. Lavage thoroughly with 2-4L of tap water with sodium bicarbonate (20G/L) added. This is to treat acidosis of the blood)

Antidote: Give ethanol, 50%, 1.5ml per kilo of body weight, orally, diluted to no more than a 5% solution, followed by 0.5-1ml/kg every 2 hours orally for 4 days. ethanol interferes with the absorption of methanol by the body and allows it to be excreted with less damaging effects. Also give up to 4 liters of water daily to maintain adequate urine output. Control delirium by giving 10mg valium slowly by injection in order to prevent respiratory depression.
Prognosis:in acute methanol poisoning approx 50% do not recover. Visual impairment will show no improvement after 1 week.

Looking up medical and drug testing labs in the phone book will help you find someplace to send a sample of the stuff your making (say you found it in a friend's room and your worried about what he's drinking) to see how clean it is.

Lead Poisoning

One real problem can be if you use lead based solder in building your still. A very bad practice that use to be prevalent was the use of old car radiators as the vapor condenser. THIS SHOULD NOT BE DONE. Car radiators are lead-soldered, and the lead will leach out and poison you. Any still construction should be welding, brazing, or silver soldering.

From "Moonshine & lead poisoning" : May 01, 1992 / 41(17);294-295

Elevated Blood Lead Levels Associated with Illicitly Distilled Alcohol -- Alabama, 1990-1991

The use of automobile radiators containing lead-soldered parts in the illicit distillation of alcohol (i.e., "moonshine") is an important source of lead poisoning among persons in some rural Alabama counties.

From March 5 through October 26, 1991, eight persons were diagnosed with elevated blood lead levels (BLLs) at a local hospital and were reported to the notifiable disease surveillance system maintained by the Alabama Department of Public Health (ADPH). None of these patients had known histories of occupational or other potential sources of lead exposure, but all reported recent histories of moonshine ingestion. This report summarizes the results of an investigation of these cases conducted by the ADPH during December 1991.

A case-patient was defined as any person aged greater than or equal to 17 years who presented to the hospital from January 1, 1990, through December 31, 1991, and had a BLL greater than or equal to 15 ug/dL. Laboratory records of specimens submitted for blood lead determination, and medical records were reviewed at the hospital. In addition to the eight patients reported to the ADPH, review of laboratory records identified one patient with a BLL of 35 ug/dL during November 1990.

Patients ranged in age from 28 to 64 years (median: 33 years); five were female. Five patients resided in the county in which the hospital is located, and four lived in adjacent counties.

All nine patients had been evaluated for alcohol-related medical conditions at the hospital. Manifestations included generalized tonic-clonic seizures (six), microcytic anemia (five) (hematocrit mean: 32.1%), encephalopathy (two), upper extremity weakness (one), and abdominal colic (one). BLLs ranged from 16 ug/dL to 259 ug/dL (median: 67 ug/dL).

Seven patients required hospitalization for 48 hours or longer (range: 2-18 days). Three of these received chelation therapy; initial BLLs were 67, 228, and 259 ug/dL. One patient, whose BLL was 67 ug/dL, died during hospitalization from alcohol-withdrawal syndrome complicated by aspiration pneumonia.

Patients reported moonshine ingestion ranging from 0.2 L per day to 1.5 L per day. No specimens of moonshine consumed by the patients were available for analysis. However, the lead contents of specimens of moonshine confiscated from two radiator-containing stills in the county in 1991 were 7400 ug/L and 9700 ug/L, compared with nondetectable amounts (less than 1.0 ug/L) in municipal water from the county. Consumption of 0.5 L per day of moonshine containing 9700 ug/L lead would result in a steady state BLL of approximately 190 ug/dL. *

Reported by: T Dix, S Walker, MD, Crenshaw County Hospital, Luverne; D Cosby, Alabama Alcohol Beverage Control, Andalusia; CH Woernle, MD, State Epidemiologist, Alabama Dept of Public Health. Div of Field Epidemiology, Epidemiology Program Office; Lead Poisoning Prevention Br, Div of Environmental Hazards and Health Effects, National Center for Environmental Health and Injury Control, CDC.

Editorial Note: The findings in the ADPH investigation underscore the adverse health effects associated with consumption of moonshine. Specifically, this problem can result from the leaching of lead from solder used in radiators or the adjoining copper pipe during distillation; moonshine may contain up to 74 ug/L of lead (1).

In adults, manifestations of lead intoxication include gastrointestinal, hematopoietic, renal, reproductive, and neurologic findings (e.g., peripheral neuropathy and encephalopathy) (1-3). Because signs and symptoms of lead poisoning may be nonspecific, the relative contribution of lead and alcohol toxicity to illness in these patients could not be determined. However, overt signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity rarely occur in adults when BLLs are less than 40 ug/dL (1). Thus, the seizures observed in these patients with BLLs less than 40 ug/dL may have been related to alcohol withdrawal rather than lead toxicity.

This cluster of patients with elevated BLLs was detected through review of notifiable disease surveillance data. In Alabama, elevated BLLs (greater than or equal to 15 ug/dL) have been a notifiable condition since December 1990. In 1991, 612 persons aged greater than or equal to 17 years with BLLs greater than or equal to 15 ug/dL were reported to the ADPH notifiable disease registry. Of these, the two highest values (228 ug/dL and 259 ug/dL) were from patients in this cluster.

The nine patients identified in this cluster may under-represent the number of lead toxicity cases related to moonshine ingestion in the counties involved in this study and in others throughout Alabama. Although the number of illegal stills operating in Alabama is unknown, Alabama Alcohol Beverage Control destroyed 94 stills in 1991, including 50 stills in the county where the hospital is located and in two adjacent counties (D. Cosby, Alabama Alcohol Beverage Control, personal communication, 1992). Since a typical four-barrel still can produce 75-95 L of moonshine per week, a substantially higher number of persons may be at risk for lead toxicity from moonshine ingestion. Ongoing surveillance efforts are directed toward further characterizing risk factors for elevated BLLs and may assist in determining the scope of lead poisoning from moonshine ingestion among Alabama residents.

Because of the illegal source of the alcohol, patients may be reluctant to admit to moonshine ingestion. Therefore, clinicians, particularly in rural areas, should suspect moonshine ingestion when treating alcohol-abusing patients, both to detect and treat the adverse effects of lead poisoning and to direct alcohol-prevention efforts.


Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Toxicologic profile for lead. Atlanta: US Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, 1992.

Baker EL, Landrigan PJ, Barbour AG, et al. Occupational lead poisoning in the United States: clinical and biochemical findings related to blood lead levels. Br J Ind Med 1979;36:314-22.

Goldman RH, Baker EL, Hannan M, Kamerow DB. Lead poisoning in automobile radiator mechanics. N Engl J Med 1987;317:214-8.

Assuming an equilibrium blood lead/dietary intake slope of 0.04 ug/dL per ug/day.

Denatured Ethanol

Why can't we get commercial methylated spirits and just distill it to make it safe to drink ?

Methylated spirits (a.k.a. denatured spirits) is ethanol or methanol with various chemicals added to make it non-potable (unsafe to drink). Some commercial distilleries sell their foreshots as metho after denaturing them with the pyridine and wood naptha group[s]; two of the most obnoxious, toxic/poisonous compounds in that family. The whole point of denaturing it is to add chemicals that can't be easily removed, then it can be sold without excise tax.

The additives chosen have vaporization properties almost identical to ethanol so can't be separated by distillation and/or chemical methods. The Australian/New Zealand Food Authority Act has chosen pyridine & wood naptha because they BOND in an ethanol/water solution most delightfully to the point that to separate this evil concoction you would need rising/falling film distillation equipment which worked under vacuum as well and then the result after one pass may only be marginal. This cost for this sort of equipment starts around 6 figures

Fusel Oil Composition

Thanks to Brad, heres a bit more detail on what has been found in the fusels, and can be present in your distilled product:

Quotes from the MERCK INDEX 10th Ed. 1983 (entry number given):
4195. Fusel Oil.

A by-product of carbohydrate fermentation to produce ethyl alc. The material varies widely in composition, depending on the fermentation raw material used, but contains chiefly isopentyl alcohol and 2-methyl-1-butanol as well as isobutyl alcohol(20%), n-propyl alcohol(3-5%), and small amounts of other alcohols, esters and aldehydes. Described as an oily liq with a disagreeable odor; 60% boils at 122-138°. Amyl alcohol (commercial) obtained by chemical treatment and refining of fusel oil contains about 85% isopentyl alcohol and 15% 2-methyl-1-butanol. Ref: Industrial Chemicals, W.L. Faith et al.

5816. Methanol.

Methyl alcohol; carbinol; wood spirit; wood alcohol. Flammable, poisonous, mobile liq. Slight alcoholic odor when pure; crude material may have a repulsive, pungent odor. Burns with a non-luminous, bluish flame. bp 64.7°. mp -97.8°. Caution: Poisoning may occur from ingestion, inhalation or percutaneous absorption. Acute Effects: Headache, fatigue, nausea, visual impairment or complete blindness (may be permanent), acidosis, convulsions, mydriasis, circulatory collapse, respiratory failure, death. Death from ingestion of less than 30ml has been reported. Usual fatal dose 100-250ml. Chronic: Visual impairment, cf.Patty's Industrial Hygiene and Toxicology vol. 2C, G.D.Clayton et al. pp 4528-4541.

The alcohols of interest in the same MERCK: (just the boiling points at atmospheric pressure, some basic characteristics and all the alternative names for each alcohol)

212. Alcohol, Anhydrous. Ethanol

ethyl alcohol. Clear, colorless, very mobile, flammable liquid; pleasant odor; burning taste. Absorbs water rapidly from air. bp 78.5°. mp -114.1°. Solidif below -130°.

4978. Isobutyl Alcohol.

2-methyl-1-propanol; isopropylcarbinol; 1-hydroxymethylpropane; fermentation butyl alcohol. Colorless, refractive liq; flammable; odor like that of amyl alcohol, but weaker. bp 108°. mp -108°.

5042. Isopentyl Alcohol.

3-methyl-1-butanol; isoamyl alcohol; isobutyl carbinol; primary isoamyl alcohol; fermentation amyl alcohol. Liquid; characteristic, disagreeable odor; pungent, repulsive taste. Vapors are poisonous! bp 132.0°. mp -117.2°. Caution: May be moderately irritating to mucous membranes. High concns may cause CNS depression, narcosis; lower concns, headache, dizziness.

5906. 2-Methyl-1-butanol.

Active amyl alcohol; dl-sec-butyl carbinol. One of the major components of fusel oil. Liquid, bp 128°.


dl-sec-Isoamyl alcohol; sec-isopentyl alcohol; isopropyl ethyl carbinol. Liquid, bp 113-114°. Fusel oil component.

211.Alcohol, 95%.

Binary azeotrope having a distillate composition of 95.57% ethyl alcohol (by wt) and bp 78.15°C. Also specified as containing 94.9% by vol or 92.3% by wt of ethyl alcohol at 15.56°C. See U.S.P. XVIII, 20, 1067(1970). d 0.816 at 15.56°C (60°F).

6985. 1-Pentanol.

Pentyl alcohol; n-amyl alcohol; n-butyl carbinol. Liquid, mild characteristic odor. bp 137.5°C. mp -79°C. Slightly soluble in water (2.7g/100ml at 22°C); misc with alcohol, ether. LD50 orally in rats: 303
------
===== NEW BATCH 19 | input_ids shape=(2, 3990) | attention_mask shape=(2, 3990) =====
------
\title{The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits}

\begin{abstract}
Recent advancements, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, are heralding a transformative period characterized by 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). In this paper, we present \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, a 1-bit LLM variant where each model parameter is limited to ternary values drawn from \{-1, 0, 1\}. This approach achieves parity with conventional full-precision Transformer LLMs—those trained in FP16 or BF16—regarding both perplexity and downstream task results, provided model size and training data are kept constant. Moreover, this methodology offers substantial reductions in latency, memory footprint, throughput limitations, and energy demands. Importantly, the 1.58-bit LLM introduces an updated scaling law along with methodologies for the next wave of LLMs that aim for both superior performance and efficiency. Beyond algorithmic advancements, it encourages new computational strategies and paves the way for the development of hardware purpose-built for 1-bit LLMs.
\end{abstract}

\section{The Era of 1-bit LLMs}

The past few years have witnessed significant expansion in both the scope and size of Large Language Models (LLMs), yielding exceptional outcomes across diverse natural language processing applications. However, this relentless scaling up introduces considerable obstacles in practical deployment and exacerbates concerns regarding the financial and ecological tolls, especially owing to the surging energy requirements.

One solution gaining traction involves employing post-training quantization to generate compact, low-bit models for inference~\cite{smoothquant, gptq, quip, quip_sharp}. This strategy lowers the numerical precision of the weights and activations, thereby substantially reducing memory consumption and computational burden for LLMs. While the community has moved from traditional 16-bit representations down to 4-bit alternatives~\cite{gptq, awq}, post-training quantization remains a compromise. Although pervasive in current industrial applications of LLMs, this approach falls short of optimality.

Recent advancements in 1-bit model designs, exemplified by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, offer encouraging possibilities for cutting down the operational costs of LLMs without significant loss in accuracy. Standard LLMs typically utilize 16-bit floating-point formats (such as FP16 or BF16), with matrix multiplication constituting the predominant operation. Consequently, the principal computational expense in these models arises from floating-point arithmetic operations, namely addition and multiplication. In contrast, BitNet achieves matrix multiplication using only integer addition, thereby resulting in a substantial reduction in energy consumption associated with LLMs. Given that power constraints often define the computational limits of hardware, these energy savings can also be harnessed to accelerate computation.

Beyond compute efficiency, the transfer of model parameters from DRAM to on-chip memory (e.g., SRAM) during inference is another resource-intensive aspect. While expanding SRAM capacities has been considered as a way to enhance throughput, this strategy substantially increases hardware costs relative to DRAM. When contrasted with full-precision networks, 1-bit LLMs exhibit a dramatically reduced memory requirement, both in terms of overall storage and memory bandwidth. This reduction facilitates faster, more cost-effective loading of model parameters from DRAM, which in turn yields speedier and more efficient inference processes.

Within this context, we present a new 1-bit LLM model named \textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58}}, where each parameter can take one of three possible values: \{-1, 0, 1\}. This innovation extends the original 1-bit BitNet, which lacked the zero value, leading to a representation size of 1.58 bits in the binary system. \text{BitNet b1.58} preserves all the principal advantages of BitNet, including its novel approach to computation—greatly diminishing multiplication operations required for matrix products and enabling significant optimization. Additionally, it continues to deliver the low energy consumption characteristic of the original, and achieves marked improvements in memory efficiency, throughput, and latency over conventional FP16-based LLMs. Moreover, \text{BitNet b1.58} introduces two notable benefits: it enhances model expressiveness by enabling explicit feature filtering, thanks to the inclusion of zero weights—a mechanism that substantially boosts the capability of 1-bit LLMs; and our experimental results demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} can achieve parity with full-precision (FP16) models, matching their performance in terms of perplexity and downstream tasks from a 3B parameter scale onward, assuming identical configurations in model scale and training corpus.

\section{BitNet b1.58}

\text{BitNet b1.58} builds upon the BitNet framework, a Transformer model in which \emph{nn.Linear} layers are substituted with \emph{BitLinear} counterparts. This variant is trained from the ground up using weights quantized to 1.58 bits and activations quantized to 8 bits. In relation to the original BitNet, several adjustments have been incorporated, as detailed below.

\paragraph{Quantization Function.} To ensure that weight values are limited to the set \{-1, 0, +1\}, we employ an \emph{absmean} quantization method. This approach rescales the weight matrix by its mean absolute value, and each entry is subsequently quantized to the nearest element in \{-1, 0, +1\}:

\begin{equation}
    \widetilde{W} = \mathrm{RoundClip}(\frac{W}{\gamma + \epsilon}, -1, 1),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \mathrm{RoundClip}(x, a, b) = \max(a, \min(b, \mathrm{round}(x))),
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \gamma = \frac{1}{nm}\sum_{ij} |W_{ij}|.
\end{equation}

For the activation quantization, we maintain the procedure used in BitNet. However, rather than scaling the activations prior to non-linear functions into the interval $[0, Q_b]$, we rescale them to the range $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ for each token, thereby omitting zero-point quantization. This modification both simplifies the implementation and is beneficial for system-level efficiency, without causing any substantial degradation in performance according to our experimental evaluations.

\paragraph{LLaMA-alike Components.}

The LLaMA architecture~\cite{llama, llama2} has become the standard template for open-source LLM development. In an effort to facilitate integration with the broader open-source ecosystem, \text{BitNet b1.58} adopts components similar to those in LLaMA. Specifically, it incorporates RMSNorm~\cite{rmsnorm}, SwiGLU~\cite{swiglu}, rotary embedding~\cite{rope}, and excludes bias terms from the model. This architectural alignment ensures that \text{BitNet b1.58} can be readily deployed in major open-source platforms (including Huggingface, vLLM~\cite{vllm}, and llama.cpp\footnote{\url{https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp}}) with minimal adaptation required.

\section{Results}

We conducted a comparative study between \text{BitNet b1.58} and our own implementation of FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} across multiple parameter scales. To maintain experimental integrity, both model families were pre-trained on the RedPajama dataset~\cite{redpajama}, with exposure to 100 billion tokens. The models were evaluated in a zero-shot setting on a diverse suite of language benchmarks: ARC-Easy~\cite{arc}, ARC-Challenge~\cite{arc}, Hellaswag~\cite{hellaswag}, Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, OpenbookQA~\cite{openbookqa}, and BoolQ~\cite{boolq}. Additionally, validation perplexity metrics were obtained on the WikiText2~\cite{wikitext2} and C4~\cite{c4} corpora.

For inference benchmarking, both the GPU memory usage and inference latency of \text{LLaMA LLM} and \text{BitNet b1.58} were systematically measured. These experiments employed the FasterTransformer\footnote{\url{https://github.com/NVIDIA/FasterTransformer}} framework, recognized for its efficient LLM inference capabilities on GPUs. Integration of the 2-bit kernel from Ladder~\cite{ladder} enabled optimal deployment of \text{BitNet b1.58}. As inference cost is predominantly influenced by the time needed per generated token, this metric was specifically reported.

The comparative results in Table~\ref{tab:ppl} highlight both perplexity and resource requirements for \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}. Notably, at the 3B parameter scale, \text{BitNet b1.58} matches the full-precision \text{LLaMA LLM} in perplexity while achieving a 2.71$\times$ speedup and a 3.55$\times$ reduction in GPU memory consumption. Specifically, \text{BitNet b1.58} at 3.9B parameters demonstrates a 2.4$\times$ speed advantage, a 3.32$\times$ lower memory footprint, and clear gains over the \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B counterpart.

Detailed zero-shot accuracy findings are presented in Table~\ref{tab:zero-shot}. We adopted the evaluation protocol of \emph{lm-evaluation-harness}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness}} for consistency. Results indicate a diminishing performance gap between \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} as model capacity increases. Crucially, at and beyond the 3B scale, \text{BitNet b1.58} achieves parity with the full-precision baseline. Echoing the perplexity trends, end-task evaluations further illustrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} 3.9B surpasses \text{LLaMA LLM} 3B in accuracy while operating at reduced memory and latency costs, signifying a Pareto improvement over established LLM architectures.

\paragraph{Memory and Latency}

We extended our experiments to encompass model sizes of 7B, 13B, and 70B, performing a corresponding analysis of computational cost. Figure~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} presents the observed patterns for both latency and memory usage, demonstrating that performance improvements become more pronounced with larger models. Notably, \text{BitNet b1.58} at 70B achieves a 4.1-fold reduction in inference time relative to the \text{LLaMA LLM} reference model. This performance gain can be attributed to the scaling behavior of \emph{nn.Linear}, where its computational demands increase in line with model size. A similar relationship is found for memory utilization; since embeddings remain at full precision, their relative memory impact diminishes in larger architectures. Measurements for latency and memory relied on a 2-bit computational kernel, indicating potential for additional optimizations that could yield further reductions in resource requirements.

\paragraph{Energy}

We assessed the estimated energy consumed by arithmetic operations in both \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM}, with special emphasis on matrix multiplication, which predominantly influences large language model computational expense. The breakdown of energy usage is visualized in Figure~\ref{fig:energy}. In the case of \text{BitNet b1.58}, INT8 additions comprise the main portion of computation, while \text{LLaMA LLM} operations are divided between FP16 additions and multiplications. Drawing on the energy model from~\cite{energycost, pokebnn}, we determined that \text{BitNet b1.58} delivers a 71.4-fold decrease in energy consumption for matrix multiplications when implemented on 7nm technology. Additionally, we evaluated total energy costs in end-to-end settings for sequences of 512 tokens. Our findings reveal that the energy efficiency of \text{BitNet b1.58} relative to the FP16 \text{LLaMA LLM} improves further as model scale increases. This trend results from the expanding proportion of computational workload assigned to \emph{nn.Linear} layers with larger models, coupled with a decreasing share of cost arising from other architectural components.

\paragraph{Throughput}

We evaluate and contrast the throughput achieved by \text{BitNet b1.58} and \text{LLaMA LLM} with 70B parameters, both executed on two 80GB A100 GPUs. To make it feasible for \text{LLaMA LLM} 70B to fit into device memory, we employ pipeline parallelism~\cite{gpipe}. The batch size is incrementally raised until the GPU memory ceiling is reached, using a fixed sequence length of 512. As presented in Table~\ref{tab:throughput}, \text{BitNet b1.58} 70B accommodates up to 11 times greater batch sizes than \text{LLaMA LLM}, yielding an overall throughput boost of 8.9 times.

\textbf{\text{BitNet b1.58} introduces a novel scaling law linking model effectiveness and inference efficiency.} Based on Figures~\ref{fig:latency-memory-energy} and \ref{fig:energy}, we observe the following correspondences between model sizes for 1.58-bit and 16-bit representations:

\begin{itemize}
    \item The 13B BitNet b1.58 surpasses the 3B FP16 LLM in latency, memory footprint, and energy demands.
    \item The 30B BitNet b1.58 delivers better efficiency in terms of latency, memory requirements, and energy usage when compared to the 7B FP16 LLM.
    \item The 70B BitNet b1.58 proves more resource-efficient—regarding latency, memory consumption, and energy—than the 13B FP16 LLM.
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Training with 2T Tokens}

The total number of training tokens is an essential consideration for LLM development. To evaluate the scalability of \text{BitNet b1.58} with respect to data volume, we trained it on 2T tokens using the data strategy outlined in StableLM-3B~\cite{StableLM-3B-4E1T}, a leading open-source model at the 3B parameter scale. Both \text{BitNet b1.58} and StableLM-3B underwent evaluation across a benchmark suite including Winogrande~\cite{winoGrande}, PIQA~\cite{piqa}, SciQ~\cite{sciq}, LAMBADA~\cite{lambada}, and ARC-easy~\cite{arc}. Zero-shot accuracy scores are reported in Table~\ref{tab:2t}. For benchmarks with both accuracy and normalized accuracy metrics, we average their values. The StableLM-3B results at the 2T token scale are quoted directly from its original report. Our experimental outcomes demonstrate that \text{BitNet b1.58} delivers better performance across all evaluation tasks, underscoring the strong generalization ability of 1.58-bit LLMs.

\section{Discussion and Future Work}

\textbf{1-bit Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs}

The Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) paradigm has established itself as an efficient and scalable strategy for large language models (LLMs), notably decreasing the total number of floating-point operations required. However, two persistent bottlenecks—substantial memory demands and extensive inter-chip communication—hinder broader deployment. These constraints can be alleviated by employing 1.58-bit LLM architectures. With a minimized memory requirement, fewer computational devices are necessary for MoE implementation. Additionally, communication overhead for activation transfers is greatly reduced, and, in optimal scenarios where the entire model fits onto a single chip, these overheads are essentially eliminated.

\textbf{Native Support for Long Sequence Processing in LLMs}

As LLMs become increasingly prevalent, native handling of long sequences has emerged as a paramount feature. The primary technical obstacle for processing extended sequences during inference stems from the substantial memory needs associated with storing KV caches. The \text{BitNet b1.58} model marks meaningful progress by halving activation precision from 16 bits to 8 bits, thereby enabling a twofold increase in context length without added resource costs. Moreover, by further compressing activations—potentially down to 4 bits or even less for 1.58-bit LLMs, without loss of information—there remains significant opportunity for further improvement, which is reserved for future exploration.

\textbf{Deployment of LLMs on Edge and Mobile Platforms}

Integrating 1.58-bit LLMs offers considerable benefits for resource-constrained environments such as edge and mobile devices. Limitations in both memory capacity and computational resources on these platforms typically restrict LLM adoption. However, the lower memory and power requirements of 1.58-bit LLMs make it feasible to deploy substantial models, opening up new possibilities and extending capabilities for these devices. Such advances expand the application landscape for LLMs in mobile and edge computing. Furthermore, since most edge and mobile environments predominantly utilize CPUs, and 1.58-bit LLMs are well-aligned with CPU execution, \text{BitNet b1.58} models can be operated with improved efficiency, delivering enhanced performance and expanding functionality in these domains.

\textbf{Emerging Hardware for 1-bit LLMs}

Recent innovations, such as those exemplified by Groq\footnote{\url{https://groq.com/}}, have highlighted the feasibility and potential benefits of developing dedicated hardware (such as language processing units, LPUs) tailored for LLM tasks. Building upon this foundation, we advocate for further research and innovation aimed at designing new computing architectures and systems expressly optimized for the computational patterns of 1-bit LLMs, as introduced by BitNet~\cite{bitnet}, to fully leverage this emerging computation paradigm.

\end{document}<|im_end|>
------
Acute neurological Behçet’s disease complicated by a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone

Eiichi Kakehi, Yukako Matsumoto, Shigehisa Sakurai, Kazuhiko Kotani

Abstract:

Summary: We describe an uncommon instance of acute neurological Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD) presenting simultaneously with systemic Behçet’s disease (BD), meeting criteria for definite BD, and further complicated by the development of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). A male patient in his sixth decade exhibited fever, cephalalgia, and various mucocutaneous signs such as oral aphthous ulcers, rashes resembling folliculitis, genital ulcerations, and reduced serum sodium. The BD diagnosis was established on the basis of his mucocutaneous presentations. Although brain MRI appeared normal, cerebrospinal fluid examination indicated aseptic meningitis, thereby corroborating a diagnosis of acute neuro-BD. Subsequent laboratory evaluations satisfied the diagnostic requirements for SIADH. Treatment solely with colchicine resulted in complete resolution of both mucocutaneous and neurological symptoms, as well as correction of hyponatraemia, without necessitating corticosteroids or other forms of immunosuppression. This report highlights a potential link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH, and emphasizes the clinical significance of identifying concurrent neurological and endocrine features when evaluating new-onset BD.

Background:

Behçet’s disease (BD) is a persistent, multisystemic inflammatory condition marked by recurrent ulcerations in the oral and genital regions, uveitis, and various cutaneous manifestations. Neurological complications, collectively termed neuro-Behçet’s disease (neuro-BD), emerge in about 10%–20% of individuals with BD, generally manifesting several years after the initial diagnosis. Acute neuro-BD often presents as meningoencephalitis accompanied by parenchymal brain lesions, with the brainstem being a frequent site of involvement. While it is more typical for neurological symptoms to appear after BD has been established, simultaneous diagnosis of BD and neuro-BD is unusual. When such concurrence arises, practitioners should thoroughly evaluate both the classic mucocutaneous findings and neurologic indicators such as headaches, behavioral disturbances, psychiatric symptoms, and localized neurological deficits.

Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) represents a recognized etiology of hyponatraemia, commonly resulting from central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, neoplasms, or specific pharmacologic agents. Due to the pronounced inflammation in acute neuro-BD, individuals with this presentation may have an elevated risk for developing SIADH. Although SIADH has been documented among BD patients undergoing treatments like cyclophosphamide, it is not well established whether SIADH can occur solely as a consequence of CNS inflammation from acute neuro-BD in the absence of medication-induced triggers.

Here, we describe an unusual case featuring the simultaneous onset of BD and acute neuro-BD, complicated by the development of SIADH. This report underscores the necessity of recognizing SIADH as a possible complication of acute neuro-BD, especially in patients who exhibit non-specific neurological symptoms in conjunction with hyponatraemia.

Case presentation:

A man of Asian descent in his 60s arrived at the emergency department, describing a 3-day period marked by fever, headache, general fatigue, diminished appetite, constant hiccups, and joint pain localized to the shoulders and ankles. He further mentioned the presence of oral aphthous ulcers.

The patient’s past medical history was notable for type 2 diabetes mellitus, though he was not receiving any medical therapy due to insufficient knowledge of his diagnosis and poor adherence to dietary and exercise recommendations. His family history revealed no cases of BD. He reported infrequent alcohol intake, no tobacco use, no recent travel, and no exposure to animals or ill individuals. Professionally, he worked in the metalworking field and reported no recent sexual activity.

Upon assessment, the patient was conscious but showed signs of fatigue. His vital parameters were as follows: temperature of 38.1°C, blood pressure measured at 135/73 mm Hg, heart rate recorded at 119 beats per minute with a regular rhythm, respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute, and an oxygen saturation of 96% while breathing ambient air. Physical examination identified the presence of oral aphthae and folliculitis-like lesions on both his face and trunk (see figure 1A, B, and C). Examination of the heart, lungs, and abdomen yielded no abnormal findings. Manual muscle strength assessment demonstrated preserved muscle power in both the upper and lower limbs. No peripheral edema was observed, and clinical evaluation indicated that he was euvolemic. The patient was admitted for additional diagnostic workup.

Investigations:

Initial blood investigations demonstrated significant hyponatraemia (124 mmol/L), with raised levels of creatine kinase (1349 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (77 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (64 U/L), C-reactive protein (CRP) (180 mg/L; reference, <3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (70 mm/hour; reference, <15 mm/hour); renal function was within normal parameters. Additionally, the patient exhibited hyperglycaemia (plasma glucose 14.2 mmol/L) and an increased HbA1c of 8.2%, suggestive of inadequate glycaemic regulation. Tests for hepatitis B and C were negative.

Further endocrine assessment showed thyroid-stimulating hormone (1.11 mIU/L; reference, 0.50–5.00 mIU/L), free T4 (1.25 ng/dL; reference, 0.90–1.70 ng/dL), and serum cortisol (42 µg/dL; reference, >6 µg/dL) all within normal reference ranges. Serum osmolality was found to be reduced (267 mOsm/kg; reference, <270 mOsm/kg), while urine osmolality was markedly elevated (900 mOsm/kg, reference, >300 mOsm/kg), as was urinary sodium (88 mmol/L; reference, >20 mmol/L), indicating a deficit in water excretion capacity. Despite the presence of hypo-osmolar hyponatraemia, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) concentrations were increased (22.4 pg/mL). Electrocardiogram, chest radiograph, and computed tomography scans of the head, chest, and abdomen revealed no abnormalities. Collectively, these laboratory and imaging results were compatible with a diagnosis of SIADH.

By the third day, the patient's headache and vertigo had intensified. Despite the absence of neck rigidity or signs implicating cranial nerves, there was suspicion of central nervous system inflammation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain did not reveal any significant pathology within the hypothalamus or other cerebral areas (see figure 2). Examination of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) indicated a mildly elevated opening pressure at 17 cmH₂O, an increased protein concentration of 0.97 g/L, and a modest lymphocytic pleocytosis, with 11 cells/µL. Microbiological analysis of the CSF, including cultures and tests for bacteria, mycobacteria, herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cryptococcal antigen, returned negative results. Cytological assessment of the CSF excluded the presence of malignant cells.

Additional diagnostic workup aimed at identifying potential underlying systemic disorders was undertaken. Assessment for sarcoidosis showed lysozyme at 5.1 µg/mL (reference range 5–10) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) at 11.4 U/L (reference 7–25), both within normal ranges. Evaluation for possible hematological malignancy demonstrated a soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) level of 704 U/mL (reference 122–496 U/mL); tests for human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 antibodies were negative.

By day 5, the patient developed a painful ulceration on the scrotum (see figure 1D). Together with concomitant oral aphthous ulcers and folliculitis-like cutaneous eruptions, these manifestations were consistent with a systemic presentation of BD. He did not manifest any pinprick hypersensitivity. An ophthalmologic evaluation found no evidence of uveitis. Testing showed positivity for HLA-B51.

Differential diagnosis:

Upon initial evaluation, the constellation of fever, headache, generalized malaise, and hyponatraemia indicated the possibility of a central nervous system (CNS) infection or a systemic inflammatory process. The clinical team primarily suspected viral meningoencephalitis, especially from HSV or VZV. Nevertheless, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analyses failed to detect viral antigens or antibodies, thereby largely excluding this etiology. Consideration was also given to bacterial meningitis, but this was dismissed because there was no neutrophilic predominance in the CSF, only a mild increase in lymphocytes, and negative CSF cultures. Tuberculous meningitis was ruled out by negative acid-fast staining and tuberculosis DNA assays.

Given the neurological presentation, primary CNS malignancy was also contemplated. However, imaging with brain MRI did not demonstrate any abnormalities and CSF cytology found no evidence of malignant cells. The mildly increased soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) level was interpreted as non-specific and insufficient for the diagnosis of CNS lymphoma in the absence of further supporting data.

Autoimmune conditions were systematically assessed, but the lack of characteristic systemic features and negative autoantibody screens excluded these diagnoses. Neurosarcoidosis remained a consideration, since normal MRI findings do not eliminate the possibility, especially in early disease; however, subsequent laboratory investigations diminished the likelihood of this diagnosis, and the slightly elevated sIL-2R was considered non-diagnostic.

Ultimately, the patient met the criteria for definite Behçet’s disease (BD) based on clinical manifestations, which comprised fever, fatigue, oral aphthae (awarded two points), genital aphthosis (two points), and a folliculitis-like skin eruption (one point). With a total of five points—surpassing the four-point threshold of the International Criteria for Behçet’s Disease—the diagnosis of BD was strongly supported, particularly due to the specificity of genital aphthosis for BD. After systematically excluding infectious, neoplastic, and other autoimmune conditions, the presence of CNS symptoms alongside mucocutaneous involvement led to a diagnosis of acute neuro-BD.

Treatment:

On the first day of hospitalization, clinicians considered an underlying inflammatory disorder, though the precise cause could not be identified. Broad-spectrum antimicrobial treatment with cefepime was commenced after obtaining blood cultures, aiming to address a possible bacterial infection even though a distinct site of infection was not apparent.

By the third day, there was a deterioration in the patient's headache and vertigo, pointing toward central nervous system involvement, either inflammatory or infectious in nature. Empirical therapy with acyclovir was given, but subsequently discontinued once laboratory investigations excluded both HSV and VZV encephalitis.

On the eighth day, colchicine therapy was introduced based on a new diagnosis of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD. Management of oral aphthous ulcers involved the use of topical corticosteroid ointment, while genital and skin lesions were treated with silver sulfadiazine cream. For SIADH, a conservative strategy was employed consisting of fluid intake restriction to less than 800 mL per day, daily monitoring of serum sodium levels, and measures to prevent overly rapid correction of sodium. Administration of hypertonic saline or vasopressin receptor antagonists was not necessary.

Outcome and follow-up:

The patient experienced resolution of his fever and an improvement in appetite the day following the initiation of colchicine. Over the subsequent two weeks, symptoms such as vertigo, general malaise, hiccups, and mucocutaneous lesions showed steady improvement. By the sixteenth day, his serum sodium had normalized at 136 mmol/L, and ADH levels had declined to 1.8 pg/mL. Additionally, myogenic enzyme concentrations returned to within the reference range.

Notably, systemic corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive agents were not employed during his treatment. After a hospital stay lasting one month—during which he recovered from the acute illness, hyponatraemia was closely monitored and managed, and rehabilitation addressed the reduction in physical capabilities—the patient was discharged. Colchicine therapy was maintained for approximately four years, during which no relapses of BD or neurological issues occurred. Once BD reached stabilization, biguanide therapy was started, resulting in sustained adequate glycaemic control.

Discussion:

In this instance, both systemic BD and acute neuro-BD were concurrently diagnosed, a notably uncommon clinical circumstance. Moreover, this case highlighted that acute neuro-BD may be accompanied by SIADH. The observed improvement in mucocutaneous, neurological, and biochemical (hyponatraemia) features following treatment with colchicine monotherapy points toward a possible direct relationship among BD, neuro-BD, and SIADH. Consequently, when a patient with BD develops fever or headache along with hyponatraemia, clinicians should be vigilant for the possibility of underlying acute neuro-BD.

A distinguishing feature of this case is the contemporaneous identification of systemic BD and acute neuro-BD, as evidenced by the presence of both mucocutaneous and central nervous system manifestations. Ordinarily, major organ involvement such as CNS pathology appears on average approximately four years after BD is first identified, and initial neurological presentations are relatively rare, occurring in fewer than 5% of cases. Headaches attributable to neuro-BD are also relatively uncommon, reported in roughly 10% of patients. Accordingly, making an initial diagnosis of neuro-BD in this scenario posed a particular diagnostic challenge. Acute neuro-BD most frequently manifests as a self-limiting meningoencephalitis, which can occur with or without focal deficits. In the present patient, MRI of the brain failed to show abnormalities in regions typically implicated in BD, such as the hypothalamus. It is noteworthy that acute neuro-BD may sometimes present solely as aseptic meningitis without accompanying parenchymal abnormalities, and normal brain MRI findings, especially in the early stages, do not rule out the diagnosis. The absence of radiographic abnormalities further compounded diagnostic difficulty. Although HLA-B51 typing was undertaken, it did not aid in reaching a diagnosis. This reflects current international BD classification criteria, which emphasize clinical rather than genetic findings, as HLA-B51 is not a requirement. This case underscores the need for clinicians to consider neuro-BD as a potential diagnosis when patients with cutaneous or mucosal features present with otherwise unexplained neurological symptoms.

At the outset of the differential diagnostic process, we primarily considered infection as the underlying cause of CNS inflammation, due to the presence of unexplained fever, neurological deficits, and hyponatraemia. Despite this, our investigations did not detect any particular infectious agent. We also explored alternative etiologies of CNS inflammation, such as connective tissue disorders and neoplastic conditions, with particular attention to sarcoidosis and haematologic malignancies. To facilitate an inclusive initial workup, we obtained autoimmune serological markers, serum ACE, and sIL-2R levels as part of a screening strategy. These assays were selected more for exclusionary purposes than for any pronounced clinical suspicion. Ultimately, there were no supportive clinical, imaging, or CSF findings for these disorders, and the results from these tests did not significantly inform our final diagnosis. Notably, serum ACE levels are only modestly sensitive for detecting sarcoidosis, and while sIL-2R might have value in assessing malignant lymphoma, slight elevations lack specificity and can arise from various inflammatory states. In our patient's presentation, the absence of genital ulcers early in the clinical course complicated the identification of BD, necessitating a wide-ranging differential diagnosis. This approach underscores the risks associated with indiscriminate testing, reinforcing that diagnostic investigations should be driven by concrete clinical findings and their results interpreted judiciously.

While cases of drug-induced SIADH in individuals with BD treated with agents such as cyclophosphamide have been documented, the link between acute neuro-BD and SIADH is not well defined. Neuro-BD involves inflammatory processes within the CNS, potentially leading to abnormalities in ADH regulation. Multiple studies indicate that interleukin-6 (IL-6)—a proinflammatory cytokine commonly increased in neuroinflammatory conditions—is implicated in enhanced ADH secretion. In the context of BD, irregular monocyte activity results in spontaneous production of IL-6, with raised IL-6 concentrations identified in the CSF of patients during acute neuro-BD episodes. These observations imply that inflammation driven by IL-6 could play a role in the pathogenesis of SIADH under such circumstances. Despite the absence of direct IL-6 measurements in serum or CSF for the current patient, the significantly increased serum CRP level may indirectly indicate an IL-6–associated inflammatory reaction. Although SIADH has been reported in conjunction with numerous conditions—such as CNS inflammation, pulmonary disorders, malignancy, and specific medications—the data from this case are insufficient to determine a direct causal association between SIADH and acute neuro-BD. The observed timing between these events might represent a general response to CNS inflammation instead of a neuro-BD–specific pathophysiological process.

This case further demonstrates the range of complications that can arise from hyponatraemia due to SIADH in acute neuro-BD. Previous studies have indicated that persistent hiccups may be a key clinical indicator of severe hyponatraemia associated with SIADH secondary to central nervous system inflammation, such as meningitis. As part of our initial assessment for fever, arthralgia, and general fatigue—which could result from either inflammatory or metabolic muscle injury—we also measured CK levels. This assessment identified rhabdomyolysis, a known but frequently neglected consequence of marked hyponatraemia that is not typically screened for in routine practice. Although these clinical features are recognized, they often do not receive sufficient attention as indicators of serious hyponatraemia. It is important for clinicians to recognize that symptoms seemingly unrelated—such as persistent hiccups or rhabdomyolysis—may actually signal underlying disturbances in electrolyte balance, particularly in patients with neuroinflammatory disease.
------
===== NEW BATCH 20 | input_ids shape=(2, 4096) | attention_mask shape=(2, 4096) =====
------
Corticosteroids remain the cornerstone therapy for acute neuro-BD, with most individuals experiencing a positive response to their use. Nonetheless, there are accounts of spontaneous recovery, particularly in instances characterized only by meningoencephalitis-like presentations. In the case discussed here, administration of colchicine alone led to improvement in mucocutaneous lesions, neurological deficits, and hyponatraemia. Colchicine mediates its anti-inflammatory properties primarily through the inhibition of neutrophil migration and activation, and by downregulating the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and IL-6. While colchicine is commonly prescribed to manage mucocutaneous features of BD, evidence from systematic reviews indicates that it is not effective as a sole therapy for acute neuro-BD, and that effective disease management generally necessitates the use of immunosuppressive medications. Indeed, reports in the literature typically describe colchicine being used in combination with corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive drugs, rather than as monotherapy. Although the possibility of spontaneous symptom resolution in this patient cannot be ruled out, our results imply that colchicine could represent a viable therapeutic alternative for acute neuro-BD and associated complications, such as SIADH, especially in scenarios where corticosteroids are either inappropriate or contraindicated.

Conclusion:

We reported an uncommon presentation involving the simultaneous onset of BD and acute neuro-BD, complicated further by the development of SIADH. This case underscores the possibility of SIADH manifesting as a complication of acute neuro-BD, emphasizing the necessity for healthcare providers to be alert to this potential link. Administration of colchicine as a single agent resulted in swift resolution of mucocutaneous lesions, neurological deficits, and hyponatraemia, indicating that colchicine might serve as an effective initial therapy in early-stage neuro-BD. When encountering patients with BD who exhibit vague central nervous system symptoms—such as fever and headache—alongside hyponatraemia, clinicians should be particularly vigilant for acute neuro-BD in the setting of SIADH.<|im_end|><|im_end|> touched on this question in the last chapter of the Undivided Universe.  However since then I have taken the story a lot further.  I assume that we must start with activity or process which can be described by what I call the algebra of process.  I have recently presented these ideas in Process, Distinction, Groupoids and Clifford Algebras: an Alternative View of the Quantum Formalism, in New Structures for Physics, ed Coecke, B., Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 813, pp. 705-750, Springer (2011).  There I show how the basic symplectic and rotational symmetries emerge and can be linked up with the von Neumann-Moyal non-commutative algebraic approach which shows how the Bohm approach emerges from the heart of what are now called quantum algebras that were originally discussed under the title 'Heisenberg matrix mechanics'.  We now have the mathematics available to see exactly how to develop the quantum ideas without being trapped in the standard Hilbert space formalism.

On 17 Jan 2014, at 02:14, Ruth Kastner <rekastner@hotmail.com> wrote:
Basically I'm just pointing out that position beables are not field currents, and it's field currents that exchange virtual photons. So not sure about your interpretation of your interesting result, nor whether position beables really apply to Glauber states. But I'll wait and see what Basil has to say.

Subject: Re: Addinall's assessment of Jim's theory
From: jack
Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2014 17:27:55 -0800

On Jan 16, 2014, at 3:47 PM, Ruth Kastner  wrote:

Everettian picture is opposed to Bohm picture.  Classical field configs corresponding to Glauber states don't involve virtual particle exchanges between Bohmian particles describable by S.  The latter are not field currents.
That's not true. In superfluid helium the macro-quantum coherent Glauber state order parameter is a reservoir for incoherent bosons. Indeed there is only about 8% bose-einstein condensate in the ground state of Helium II.
In any case I do not think is a formal problem in the theory.
The math argument I gave I think is very convincing.
In the EM case
A is a Glauber coherent state order parameter of virtual near field photons of all three spin 1 polarizations f =/= ck
+ real photons f = ck of only transverse polarizations in the far field.
S is the quantum phase of the fermion charge, not of the boson condensate.
hGradS is obviously a longitudinal polarized momentum transfer between test charge and its coincident EM vector potential (order parameter) A
It is the cancellation of the hGradS terms in the formal gauge transformation algebra that describes exchange of virtual photon momentum between particle hidden fermion variable and classical boson field.
It is this cancellation that keep canonical momentum P = mdr/dt + (e/c)A gauge invariant.
hGradS/&t  is the action/reaction "force"
&E&t < h
In the gravity analog hGradS is replaced by the coincident LNIF -> LNIF' frame transformation XdX for exchange of virtual graviton acceleration between 
geodesic test mass m and non-tidal gravity-acceleration field {Levi-Civita Connection}.
XdX/&t is a "jerk" as in EM radiation reaction, but here its the gravity analog.

From: jack
Subject: Re: Addinall's assessment of Jim's theory
Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2014 15:36:23 -0800
To: Ruth 

Parallel universes that phase communicate
David Deutsch
However bosons have super quantum potential and no problem for them
Classical field configurations are already Glauber states

Sent from my iPhone

On Jan 16, 2014, at 2:57 PM, Ruth Kastner  wrote:

How can particles have definite positions if they might not even exist?

From: jack
Subject: Re: Addinall's assessment of Jim's theory
Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2014 13:30:01 -0800
To: Ruth

Even nonrelativistically one can have uncertain knowledge of what total particle number is.
I see no problem here either conceptually or formally.
The rules are that of Finkelstein's quantum logic 

Sent from my iPad

On Jan 16, 2014, at 1:08 PM, Ruth Kastner

Basil as I understand it has acknowledged that particle position beables are not the right beables for a relativistic version of the Bohmian theory. Basil do correct me if I am wrong...

From: jack
Subject: Re: Addinall's assessment of Jim's theory
Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2014 12:56:11 -0800
To: Ruth

I dont think what u say about coherent states is true
I am sure Basil Hiley has a counter argument?
Sent from my iPhone

On Jan 16, 2014, at 12:39 PM, Ruth Kastner wrote:

Ah OK I see that by adding dS you are in effect including a Bohmian 'quantum potential' term as the gauge here. So yes, it does act as an additional effective force on a putative Bohmian particle that is otherwise behaving classically. Thisis of course how the Bohmian theory regains quantum predictions based on assuming the existence of particles pursuing
deterministic trajectories. 

Interesting, although as you know I don't buy the existence of Bohmian particles ;)   For one thing, assuming a persistent particle is inconsistent with coherent states that must always have an indefinite number of particles. 

From: jack
Subject: Re: Addinall's assessment of Jim's theory
Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2014 10:45:04 -0800
To: Ruth 

On Jan 16, 2014, at 10:11 AM, Ruth Kastner wrote:

Jack that is very interesting. But wouldn't such an exchange give rise to an additional force on the charge--implying a change
in observed E field?

I don't understand your question.
The argument below has nothing to do with Jim's gravity theory. It's pure QED.
The result of the local gauge invariance is in this simple case
md^2r/dt^2 = eE   Newton's second law
P = mdr/dt + (e/c)A
dP/dt = md^2r/dt^2 + (e/c)dA/dt
E = - (1/c)dA/dt
Under an internal symmetry local U1 gauge transformation - that conserves electrical charge generating U1(x)
mdr/dt -> mdr/dt + hGradS
(e/c)A -> (e/c)A - hGradS
S = phase of particle's quantum wave function (Bohm)
This is simply an exchange of longitudinally polarized virtual photon momentum between particle (e,m) and classical field A which takes time &t 
It is the quantum field mechanism for near field electrical contact force.
Under these virtual gauge transformation dP/dt = 0, which is the action-reaction principle.
If A exerts near field contact force hGradS/&t on e, then e has equal and opposite back-reaction force on A and vice versa.
This is intuitively obvious, elegant beautiful and I have never seen it explained this way before, so I claim it as an original insight in the LOCAL physical meaning 
of all internal symmetry transformations and how they connect to spacetime conservation-symmetry laws.
An analogous argument for gravity - is not momentum transfer but proper tensor acceleration transfer between test particle and Levi-Civita LNIF field in time &t, 
i.e. the kinematical jerk d^3r/dt^3   - mathematically it's the XdX term in the LC LNIF transformation, where X = GCT
{LNIF} -> {LNIF'} = XXX{LNIF} + XdX
d^2r/ds^2 -> d^2r'/ds^2 = Xd^2r/ds^2 + XdX
This keeps proper acceleration of the test object invariant!
D^2r/ds^2 -> D^2r'/ds^2 = Xd^2r/ds^2 + XdX - XXX{LNIF}X^-1dr/dsX^-1/dr/ds - XdX
= XD^2/ds^2
The "jerk" transferred between test particle and gravity acceleration field (first order non-tidal Newtonian field LC connection of EEP)
is simply XdX/&t  from virtual spin 2 graviton exchange. It's not a momentum transfer as in all spin 1 gauge theories.
i.e. D^3r/ds^3 = 0
Alex Poltorak's PhD was based on a common misconception

> Subject: Re: Addinall's assessment of Jim's theory
> Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2014 05:05:03 -0800
> To: bdj10@cam.ac.uk
> Yes of course, also it corresponds to charge conservation 
> But I am talking about a direct local physical meaning to
> A -> A' = A + (hc/e)dS
> hdS is virtual photon momentum exchange between charge kinetic momentum and field momentum (e/c)A
> Sent from my iPad
> > On Jan 16, 2014, at 1:56 AM, Brian Josephson <bdj10@cam.ac.uk> wrote:
> > 
> > 
> >> On 16 Jan 2014, at 05:22, Jack wrote:
> >> 
> >> gauge invariance is usually treated very abstractly as a purely mathematical device
> >> There is a picture of it in terms of fiber bundles but not in terms of physics
> > 
> > In the case of electromagnetism, there is a direct physical correlate, the Eherenberg-Siday-Aharonov-Bohm effect.
> > 
> > 
> > Brian
> > 
> > ------
> > Brian D. Josephson
> > Emeritus Professor of Physics, University of Cambridge
> > Director, Mind–Matter Unification Project
> > Cavendish Laboratory, JJ Thomson Ave, Cambridge CB3 0HE, UK
> > WWW: http://www.tcm.phy.cam.ac.uk/~bdj10
> > Tel. +44(0)1223 337260/337254
> >



On 1/8/2014 9:55 PM, Jacob Sarfatti wrote:
Its physical significance is pretty simple:
The non-tensor inhomogeneous term in the transformation of the Christoffel symbol connection field is the change in proper acceleration of the lnif.

Sent from my iPad

More precisely,

What I meant was that the XdX inhomogeneous term in the GCT gauge transformation LNIF -> LNIF' CANCELS OUT in the computation of the proper acceleration of the LNIF detector, which by definition is a property of its REST FRAME, i.e. the reading of the accelerometer clamped to its center of mass. We are here talking about the local rest frame of the detector not that of the test particle the detector is monitoring.

It's this cancellation of the two equal and opposite XdX terms in the respective rest frames of the detectors that maintains the tensor property of the proper accelerations of the two coincident LNIF/LNIF' connected by GCT X.

GCT X is a an element of the local translational gauge group T4(x).

So in EM we have


this keeps

P = mV + (e/c)A gauge invariant.

mV -> mV' = mV + hdS

S = quantum phase of wave function of test particle with inertia m and with charge e.


hdS is the momentum carried by a longitudinally polarized virtual photon that is the CONTACT electrical force in quantum field theory.

dP/dt = 0 is ACTION-REACTION principle between electric charge and coincident EM field.

dP/dt = 0 is the real force law

mdV/dt = eE

since E ~ (1/c)dA/dt

Now for gravity, we focus on the proper acceleration of the detector (a rest frame property of the detector) not the test particle.

The GCT X induces an XdX kinetic acceleration term which is canceled by the equal and opposite XdX term in the LC transformation.

This keeps the tensor property intact for

DV^i(LNIF)/ds = {LNIF}^i00

in every rest frame


DV^i'(LNIF')/ds = {LNIF}^i'0'0'

The LC connection in flat spacetime is exactly like the LC connection in curved spacetime.

Flat spacetime is simply an unstable solution of Einstein's field equations. 

Mathematically the LC connection has zero self curl in flat spacetime. The self curl of the LC connection is the curvature tensor.

The LC connection is not zero in flat spacetime in non-inertial frames.

The inhomogeneous term is the change in proper acceleration of the frame.

Symbolically X = GCT which physically is the transformation between two COINCIDENT LNIFs each with proper acceleration encoded in their corresponding LCs.

LC --> LC' = XXXLC + XdX

I must have the patience of a saint.

More accurately of a demon!

The proper acceleration of the test particle is the tensor

DV(test particle)/ds = dV(test particle)/ds - LC(LNIF)V(test particle)V(test particle)

The proper acceleration of the LNIF in its rest frame is


but in the rest frame, for the 3-vector parts

V(LNIF) = 0

dV(LNIF)/ds = 0


DV^i(LNIF)/ds = - LC(LNIF)^i00V^0(LNIF)V^0(LNIF)

V^0 = 1 in the REST FRAME always


DV^i(LNIF)/ds = - LC(LNIF)^i00

Under the GCT in the REST FRAME of LNIF'

DV^i'(LNIF)/ds = - LC(LNIF')^i'0'0'V^0'(LNIF')V^0'(LNIF') = - LC(LNIF')^i'0'0'

Because, just like in the U(1) EM gauge transformations

dV(LNIF)/ds -> dV(LNIF')/ds = dV(LNIF)/ds + XdX


- LC(LNIF)^i00 -> - LC(LNIF)^i'0'0 - XdX

Therefore the XdX inhomogeneous terms cancel out for the transformation LNIF -> LNIF' when we calculate the proper acceleration change of the center of mass /origin of the LNIF.


On Jan 8, 2014, at 2:29 PM, Ruth Kastner <rekastner@hotmail.com> wrote:

I'm enjoying Rob's analysis which I think is very helpful.

Based on his comments it occurred to me that it might be useful to recall that Aristotle talked about four kinds of explanatory causes for any phenomenon: material, efficient, formal, and final. In these terms Jack is content with a formal cause (the symmetries) as an explanation,
See below
while Jim and Paul regard that as inadequate. Instead they seem to be looking for a material and/or efficient cause.
Are they? Let's review.
Aristotle held that there were four kinds of causes:[2][4]
I say the material cause is the "marble" of Einstein's geometrodynamical field molded by the "wood" of the stress-energy current densities of all the non-gravity fields.
Therefore, I invoke a material cause as well as symmetries.
  • An event's final cause is the aim or purpose being served by it. That for the sake of which a thing is what it is. For a seed, it might be an adult plant. For a sailboat, it might be sailing. For a ball at the top of a ramp, it might be coming to rest at the bottom.
I am definitely into teleological final cause - Destiny in a Block HOLOGRAM
------
, ether. LD50 orally in rats: 1870mg/Kg, Smyth et al., Arch. Ind. Hyg. Occup. Med. 10, 61 (1954). Caution: see 1-Pentanol.

Brad also commented :

As you can probably see from these brief descriptions, methanol appears to be one of the most toxic of all. In fact the other alcohols by and large appear to have much the same effct as ethanol when consumed (with much greater activity/toxicity), except methanol which has some toxic metabolite (formaldehyde) which is somehow toxic to the optical nerves of the eye. Ethanol administration is actually used to slow down the metabolism of methanol when it's accidentally consumed! Note the Merck note about Chronic effect (long-term use) of methanol being visual impairment; does this occur to heavy drinkers?!?

HD Posts

Safety and Related Issues Forum
Safety Posts<|endoftext|>Black Iron's Glory - Chapter 387


Something seemed off. Claude put down the reports and dove into his thoughts. If they were accurate, it was easy to conclude Shiks couldn't send more reinforcements for at least the next half a year, which meant the forces currently in-colony would just continue to coop up in the city. It was a perfect time to stage the nikancha rebellion.

But whether they did now was no longer important. It was more important to know when the situation in Shiks would stabilise, and who won the fight between the royals and the nobles. Majid III had given the order to conscript the nobles' levies and had refused to send the royal corps.

At the same time, Nasri and Canas had refused to rent their main corps. Thundercrash and 3rd Monolith had flattened both voluntary corps and it hurt enough to make the two countries second guess their involvement in the war.

In Canas' case, only three of their corps had survived the last war. They had rented one out to Shiks, which had died on Nubissia. They were not about to do the same with the two they had left.

While Nasri was in a better situation, about double what Canas had had, they were also very much still recovering. On top of that, they were walking on thin ice with Aueras, and didn't want to risk provoking a direct response. They could explain away the corps they'd already sent as retired veterans choosing to join Shiks of their own accord, but the excuse would not work for any of their other forces.

Claude finally understood why Majid III had instigated this series of wars. The Shiksan colonies were mostly landlocked. They were covered in mountains and forests. Very little of the territory could be used to produce the fundamentals to survive, like food. All the minerals in the world meant nothing if you couldn't keep the people who mined them alive, an endeavour made all the harder thanks to the abundance of disgruntled natives.

The Bleyotte article had called Majid III delusional for thinking he could just relocate his nobles to the colonies. No one would want to move so far from the centre of power, and even less so when all that awaited them was rocky mountains and angry natives.

All this changed, however, when they got Vebator. With a good port, Shiks' inland colonies had access to the sea and resources for developing the colonies were sent non-stop. The nobles discovered mining was a rather profitable endeavour, so they hired merchants and proprietors to prospect on their behalf.

Majid III sensed the change in the nobles' attitudes. They had become more amenable to relocation. A new problem quickly surfaced, however. Many of the nobles had set up commercial mining operations in the colonies already. Handing out fiefs had thus become a minefield. Give the wrong piece of land with a mine from one noble to another with whom the first had a feud, and you just angered two nobles for the price of one.

The king thus decided to procure more virgin ground, and who better than a kingdom just ravaged by war and licking its wounds? He was particularly partial to Cromwell and Balingana since they were the most fertile, close to his colonies, and had already seen some basic development. They also came with a little bonus. The Albator Plains, which straddled the border between the two colonies, is home to a substantial annual migration of bull herds. Their skins, meat, and horns were a veritable goldmine.

The paper reported the nobles were in full agreement with their king's plans. Some even proclaimed their willingness to be moved to the new continent entirely. It further cemented Majid III's determination to demand the two colonies from Aueras.

Less than three years had passed since the end of the last war at the time. Aueras had still been worn and its economy a wreck. Shiks, on the other hand, had been untainted by war for generations and had sat on their throne in the north unchallenged for decades. Majid III and his ministers believed they could strongarm Aueras just like they did all their minor neighbours. Wounded as Aueras was, however, it had won the war, and the people's, and the aristocracy's, pride would not let them give in to Shiks' demands.

Thus started the first official war on Nubissia. Shiks thought it could overwhelm the Aueran forces with two standing corps, but they disappointed after the four decades of peace the nation had enjoyed. It took them half a year to take Wickhamsburg, which was more than enough time for the Auerans to respond.

The months thereafter had seen Ranger's magical performance. The two so-called elite Shiksan corps were exterminated. The noble faction to whom the two corps had belonged went mad with rage and demanded vengeance.

The king went along and gave the order to have five elite noble corps sent to Nubissia. He also declared that anyone with sufficient achievements would be given land, even titles. The kingdom was willing to give all of Balingana and Cromwell away to reward its brave pioneers.

Not one noble thought they would actually lose. Five corps was 300 thousand men, whereas Aueras only had a folk of 32 thousand. They had ten men for every one Aueras had, and no one thought Aueras' soldiers were worth the shit they shat. They didn't even count the local forces, they were nothing but peasants with sticks as far as Shiks' nobles were concerned.

The nobles who put in the effort and funding soon gathered the supplies the five corps needed and launched the second colonial war. But their grand plans came crashing down like a house of cards. Unlike what they had imagined, their five standing corps were led around by Ranger on a leash and even got into huge trouble. In the end, what remained of their forces had to surrender when Wickhamsburg, their supply base, was burned down.

When word of the complete and total extermination of the five standing corps spread to Shiks, the only person beam with joy about it was Majid III. With the seven noble corps gone, the eight royal corps became the pillar of the kingdom. The royal family became the sole voice in matters of the kingdom and no noble was willing to step up to oppose them.

However, he was well aware that the nobles still had deep foundations despite the loss of their forces. He decided to strike while the iron was hot to cause the nobles to bleed further. After their defeat in the second colonial war, some ministers did advise for the royal corps to be sent to Nubissia to salvage the situation, but they were ignored by the king who cited that their arms were still insufficient to deal with the Aueran threat.

What he did later caused everyone to gasp in horror. He hired the troops of Nasri and Canas as well as their navy to stabilise the situation in Nubissia. Then, he forbade the Aueran ambassador entry with the excuse of venting rage on the nobles' behalf, closing the door to the negotiation table for good and humiliating the Aueran ambassador and the Stellin royal family. That also forfeited all hopes for the nobles to ransom back their captured relatives.

He then gave an impassioned speech on revenge and voiced his support for the nobles to form new forces to continue the fight on Nubissia. The royal family would fund the formation of ten standing corps. Now that he had offered such a great deal, the drafting of the troops would no doubt have to come from the nobles' fiefs.

It was then when some nobles looked back at all that had happened and began to ponder. It only just occurred to them that the nobles had been doing all the heavy lifting throughout the two prior wars while Majid III cheered from the sidelines. Apart from paying some money out of his pocket, all he did was make grand promises and gestures without bearing any of the consequences from the two wars.

And now, the formation of the ten standing corps would deprive the nobles of their manpower pool in their respective fiefs and allow the royal family an opportunity to stretch their influence into their fiefs. With nearly all the troops in Shiks in the royal family's control, if Majid III ever wanted to prey on the nobles, they wouldn't be able to resist the assault of the elite royal corps with their private keeper forces at all. The consequences would be unthinkable.

The nobles who were aware of the ploy began resisting the royal family and Majid III in the only way they knew how: secretly not cooperating and delaying the formation of the standing corps as best they could. In the coming year or so, only two of those corps were formed and the other three couldn't get fully staffed no matter what.

Majid III also found out that his ploy was discovered, but he didn't really mind and sent the two formed corps to Nubissia while pushing for the other three to be staffed. As for the other five, since the nobles weren't interested, he didn't mind delaying their formation. He'll let the situation on Nubissia develop and encourage them to do so again once they began seeing yields. He understood the nobles really well. They wouldn't bite unless there was bait.

The way the king and the military saw it, they didn't really care about the failure of the two colonial wars and believed it to be a result of the nobles being too eager and greedy to see results. Majid III decided to fight firmly and patiently. He would wait for the three other standing corps to be formed and trained first before starting the third colonial war.

By then, there would be seven main corps in the colonies. With the two voluntary corps leading the charge and the other five at the back, they would first clear out Cromwell and set up a tough defence line there before attacking Balingana. He and the military advisors believed that the five enhanced Aueran folks wouldn't be able to resist being overwhelmed with numbers like that at all and their best bet was to give up on Balingana and Cromwell to retreat beyond Dorinibla River to use it to stop the Shiksan offensive.

As long as he could gain the two colonies, Majid III would be able to fulfil his promise to the nobles and give them fiefs relative to their efforts and the losses they suffered in the past two wars as reparations. After tasting profit, the nobles would no doubt drop their suspicion for the royal family and go through with the formation of the other five standing corps without delay.

Once that was complete, Shiks would have 12 standing corps in Nubissia. The king believed nobody would be able to stop them after that. They could even take all the remaining Aueran colonies to make up for their two humiliating losses.

After that, the reputation of Shiks would once more skyrocket on Freia. The nobles would no longer be against having their fiefs moved to the colonies. Majid III would no doubt go down in the history books as the legendary monarch that ushered in the golden age of his kingdom.

Yet, lady fate was ever so fickle. Never would Majid III dream that the new field marshal, Miselk's successor, would take the initiative to start the third colonial war. He launched an attack on the two voluntary corps from Nasri and Canas with Thundercrash, a mere folk. In three triumphant victories, he crushed the two strong corps and even swallowed the new Tofeid corps up. The remaining standing corps turtled up in Port Vebator and secured the only chance Shiks had to fight back.

All his plans evaporated with the horrible loss in the third colonial war. When the news broke, he smashed all the precious art pieces in the royal study. Sometimes, even the most perfect of plans could be ruined by subordinates who didn't do their part. Even so, he still wanted to try one last time and immediately sent ambassadors to Canas and Nasri in hopes of hiring their corps and sending them to secure the situation on Nubissia once more.

But no matter how hard the ambassadors tried, the two nations refused to hire their forces away. Majid III wasn't willing to send his own royal corps there either, so he decided to use the royal family's rightful authority to forcefully conscript the private armies of the nobles for the five corps he intended to send away.

The nobles didn't openly call for a rebellion, but secretly gave the order for their troops to resist forced conscription and escape to the mountains for a game of cat and mouse with the corps Majid III sent after them. With Shiks in such turmoil, its king couldn't be bothered with what was happening on Nubissia at all.

Support Ryogawa and his work Black Iron's Glory<|endoftext|>Friday, November 2, 2007

Simple Arithmetic in the Bourne Shell


Most folks use shells like bash and ksh (myself included) because of the additional functionality they provide. Shells like sh, jsh, ash and the standard posix are more limited and don't come with a lot of bells and whistles.

Of course, working in a limited shell does have its advantages. For instance, if you write a script in sh, it'll probably work on most any system you port it to. Write in on Solaris and you can most likely run it on Solaris, HP-UX, SCO, Linux, etc.

One of the bonuses the more advanced shells come with is the ability to perform arithmetic simply. However, simply because the functionality exists overtly in the more advanced shells doesn't mean that, without a little practice, you can't perform arithmetic just as easily in "lesser" shells.

In sh (which we'll use as our example "simple" shell from this point forward) you can do arithmetic pretty easily if you know how to use the "expr" command.

Let's say you want to add 2 + 2 and assign that result to a variable. Simple enough, right? In ksh you could simply do:

let result=$a+$a
echo $result

And you're all set. Of course, it's not that much more difficult in sh. As shown below:

result=`expr $a + $a`
echo $result

Doesn't seem all that much more difficult, huh?

Basically, in sh you have to use expr. That's okay, because its on virtually every flavor of Unix available, as is sh. You get your result from expr (which simply evaluates expressions; arithmetic and otherwise) by calling it from between the backticks (``). Backticks in Unix are just a simple way of saying "replace what's within these backticks with the result of the expression, calculation, function or assignment executed within these backticks."

So, to break it down, sh simply does this:

result=`expr 2 + 2`
expr 2 + 2 returns 4

There are lots of things you can do like this in lesser shells. Ultimately, it's a user preference, but, if you're looking for maximum portability, taking advantage of the lesser shells is a great way to go. Virtually everything that can be done easily in more user-friendly shells can be done in lesser shells.

Sometimes it's simple, like this, and sometimes its beyond the point of confusing. For instance, faking arrays in sh isn't very complicated, but it can be very easy to lose track of. But that's for another day!

, Mike<|endoftext|>Wednesday, August 28, 2013

Gisèle, Age 6

(for Gisèle at age 5, click here.)

(Throughout this entire interview, Gisèle was doing her hair in front of the mirror, trying out different bows and barrettes.)

1. What is your favorite color?  "Blue."

2. What is your favorite toy?  "That flapping wing Barbie."

3. What is your favorite fruit?  "Probably a pear."

4. What is your favorite tv show?  "Probably Pioneer Woman.  And Team Umizoomi."

5. What is your favorite thing to eat for lunch?  "A hamburger."

6. What is your favorite outfit?  "You know that answer, don't you?  That Hello Kitty dress with the hood."

7. What is your favorite game?  "Princess Candy Land."

8. What is your favorite snack?  "Probably Cheez-Its."

9. What is your favorite animal?  "A seal, I bet.  Or giraffe.  I have lots of favorite animals."

10. What is your favorite song?  {singing} "Bay-bah, bay-bah, OH! OH! My bay-bah!"  {by Justin Bieber.}

11. What is your favorite book?  "Probably princess books."

12. Who is your best friend?  "Kendall."

13. What is your favorite breakfast?  "It's probably a chocolate chip muffin."

14. What is your favorite thing to do outside?  "Probably ride a bicycle."

15. What is your favorite drink?  "Um, probably chocolate milk."

16. What is your favorite holiday?  "Um, I think it's my birthday."

17. What do you like to take to bed with you at night?  "Platypus, Falls {an "Inkoo" that she decorated with leaves"}, and Baby Bear."

18. What is your favorite thing to eat for dessert?  "Cake and cupcakes and ice cream."

19. What is your favorite dinner?  "Probably a hotdog with ketchup and mustard and also I like Chick-fil-A food." 

20. What do you want to be when you grow up?  "A singer.  Like {singing} 'Bay-bah, bay-bah, OH!'"

Happy birthday, Gisèle!  You are growing up so fast!!

Trish signature for blog

Wednesday, August 14, 2013

Snakes on a...

... fearless girl!  

The grin, contrasted with the teacher in the background, makes the shot.

Trish signature for blog

Sunday, August 11, 2013

Spending Wisely

Jamie was trying to explain to Gisèle was "spending wisely" meant.  She thought she had a grasp on the concept, so decided to give him an example.

Gisèle, smiling:  "So,