--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>The BOFT algorithm is a parameter-efficient finetuning method for neural networks. It is based on the idea of orthogonal finetuning, which is a technique that uses orthogonal matrices to update weights in a pretrained model. The BOFT algorithm extends this concept by using a factorization of the orthogonal matrix into a product of two orthogonal matrices. This factorization allows the BOFT algorithm to be implemented efficiently and with low memory requirements.

In the context of neural networks, the BOFT algorithm can be used to finetune a pretrained model. For example, if you have a pretrained model that has been trained on a dataset of images, you can use the BOFT algorithm to finetune the model on a new dataset of images. The BOFT algorithm can also be used to finetunes models that are already fine-tuned on a different dataset.

The BOFT algorithm is particularly useful when you want to finetune a large model, but you don't have enough memory to store the full orthogonal matrix. The BOFT algorithm allows you to finetune the large model by only storing the factors of the orthogonal matrix, which are much smaller than the full orthogonal matrix. This can significantly reduce the memory requirements of the finetuning process.

Another advantage of the BOFT algorithm is that it can be used to finitely transform a pretrained model. This means that you can finetune the model to a specific target by applying a sequence of orthogonal transformations. This can be useful for tasks such as image recognition, where you want to finetunes the model to a specific classification threshold.

Finally, the BOFT algorithm is particularly well-suited for finetuning large models because it can be implemented efficiently and with minimal memory requirements. This makes it an attractive option for researchers and practitioners who need to finetune large models quickly and efficiently.<|endoftext|>
