--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a butterfly factorization to construct a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix with a much smaller number of blocks than the number of neurons in each layer. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a much smaller number of trainable parameters than OFT. BOFT is orthogonal because it uses an orthogonal matrix to transform the weights of a neural network. BOFT is fast because it uses a butterfly factorization, which can be efficiently computed on the GPU. BOFT is simple because it is just a small modification to the standard OFT algorithm. BOFT is effective because it improves performance over a strong baselines, including the block-diagonal approach to OFT. BOFT improves performance over a strong baseline because it uses a more parameter-efficient way to perform finetuning.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel and effective method for adapting large models to downstream tasks, Orthogonal Butterfly (BoFT), which improves parameter efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetting (OFT) and it's block-diagonal approach. OFT is a parameter-efficient finetting method that uses an orthogonal matrix to finetune the weights of a neural netowrk. OFT is parameter-efficient because it only uses a small number of trainable parameters to finetune a large model. OFT is orthogonal because it uses and orthogonal matrix to finetue the weights of a neural networks. OFT is fast because it can be efficiently computed on a GPU. OFT is simple because it is a small modification to the backpropagation algorithm. OFT is effective because it improves perforamnce over a strong baseline, including the block-diagnoal approach to OFT. OFT improves performance over a strong base because it uses a more efficient way to perform finetunig.

The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning for Text-to-Image Diffusion" presents a novel and effecient method for adapting large text-to-image diffusion models to downstream tasks, Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Butterfly (Boft). Boft is a parameter-efficient version of Orthogonal Butterfly (BoFt), which improves parameter efficiency of Boft over standard Orthogonal Finettung (Oft) and its block-diagnoal approch. Boft is parameter-efficient because it use a much smaller number of trainale parameters than Boft. Boft is orthogonal because it uses a block-diagonal orthogonal matrx to transform the weights of the text-to-image diffusion model. Boft is fast because it can efficiently be computed on the GPU. Boft is simple because it is only a small modification to the Oft algorithm. Boft is effective because it improves performace over a strong baseline, which includes the block-diagonal approach of Oft. Boft improves performance over a strong bae because it uses a more effecient way to perform finetuing.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning with Factorization" presents a new and efficient method for adapting larg models to downstream tasks, parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning with factorization (POFT). POFT improves parameter efficiency over standard orthogonal finetuning (OFT), which is a parameter-efficient finettung method that uses an orthogonal matrx to finetune the weigths of a neural network. POFT is parameter-efficient because uses a much smaller number or trainable parameters than OFT to finetune a larg model. POFT is orthogonal because it use an orthogonal matrix to finettue the weights of a nneral netowkr. POFT is fast because it can effeciently be computed on the GPU, and it is simple because it is onl a small modification to the OFT algorithm. POFT is effective because it improve performance over a strong baseline, whcih includes the block-diagonal aporoach to OFT. POFT improves performance over a strog baseline because it uses a mor effecient way to perfrom finetuing.

The postr is "Parameter-Efficient Finetuning with Factorizations", which presents a new and efficient methos for adapting large models to downstram tasks, parameter-efficient finetuning with factorizations (PFT). PFT improves parameter efficiency over standrad orthogonal finetuning (OF), which is a parameter-effecient finetuning method that use an orthogonal matrix to finteune the weights of a nnearl netowkr. PFT is parameter-effecient because it uses a much small number of trainable parameters than Oft to finetune a lage model. PFT is orthogonal because it usese an orthogonal matrix to fineteune the weights of a neral netowkr. PTF is fast because it can eeficiently be computed on the GUP, and it is simple becuase it is only a small modifcation to the OFT algorithm.PFT is effective because it imrpoves performance over a strong baseline which includes the block-diagnoa approach to OFT. PFT improves performance over a strng
