--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a butterfly factorization to construct a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a smaller orthogonal matrix than OFT, but still achieves similar performance. BOFT is also computationally efficient because it can be implemented with a single matrix-vector multiplication. The authors evaluate BOFT on 13 language modeling and 9 natural language understanding tasks from the FLAN and MLPerf benchmarks. BOFT outperforms OFT and other parameter-efficient finetuning methods by a significant margin. BOFT is also more parameter-efficient than OFT, reducing the number of trainable parameters by up to 75% without sacrificing performance. BOFT is a simple and effective method for finetuning large models that can be easily integrated into existing finetuning pipelines. The paper is well-written and the results are convincing. I have only a few minor comments and questions.

Minor comments and questions:
1. In Section 3.2, the authors mention that BOFT can be implemented with a block-diagonal orthogonal transformation matrix. However, the block-diagonal matrix used in BOFT is not a true block-diagonal matrix, but rather a block-triangular matrix. This is because the orthogonal matrix used in BOFT has a block-diagonal structure, but the blocks are not square matrices. This is a minor point, but it might be worth clarifying this in the paper.
2. In Section 4.2, the authors compare BOFT to other parameter-efficient finetunig methods. One method that is not included in the comparison is Group Normalization (GN). GN is a parameter-efficient method that has been shown to be effective for finetuning large neural networks. It would be interesting to see how BOFT compares to GN on the benchmarks used in the paper.
3. In Section 5.2, the authors evaluate BOFT on the LAMB finetuning pipeline. One parameter that is not included in this evaluation is the learning rate. It would be interesting see how BOFT performs with different learning rates compared to OFT and other methods.
4. In Section 5, the authors mention that the BOFT factorization can be modified to improve parameter-efficiency. One modification that is not mentioned in the paper is to use a block-diagonal orthogonal factorization with a block size that is a power of two. This is because the butterfly factorization used in BOFT is equivalent to a block-diagonal orthogonal multiplication with a block size of two. Using a block size that is larger than two would result in a block-diagonal orthogonal multiplier with a block size that has a smaller power of two factor. This would result in a smaller number of trainable parameters. It would be interesting if the authors could evaluate this modification to the BOFT factorization.

Review 2:
Summary: This paper proposes a new finetuning method called BOFT, which is parameter-efficient and computationally efficient. BOFT uses a butterfly factorization of an orthogonal matrix to reduce the number of trainable parameters. The authors evaluate BOft on 12 language modeling and 9 NLU tasks from FLAN and MLPerF benchmarks. BOFT outperform OFT and other parameter efficient finetuning methods by significant margins. BOFT is also much more parameter efficient than OFT, reducing number of trainable parameters by 75% without sacrificing accuracy. BOFT is a very simple and effective method for fine-tuning large models. The paper is well written and the results are convincing.

Major comments:
1. The authors claim that BOFT is computationally efficient. However, the authors do not provide any evidence that BOFT is computionally efficient. The authors only provide a theoretical analysis of the number of flops required for BOFT. However, the authors also need to provide empirical evidence that BOFT is faster than OFT. The authors should provide empirical evidence that BOft is faster than OFT on a variety of hardware platforms. This is especially important since the authors claim that BOFT can be used for real-time inference. The authors should also provide empirical evidence that BO FT is faster than other parameter efficient finetunig methods such as GLOFT and LAMB.
2. The authors claim that the BOFT factorizaiton can be modified to improve the parameter efficiency. However, the authors only provide one example of how the BOFT factorization could be modified. The authors should provide more examples of how the BOFT factroization could be modified to improve parameter efficiency. For example, the authors could modify the BOFT factorization to use a block-diagnoal orthogonal matrix with a block size that a power of two. The authors should also evaluate these modifications empirically.
3. The authors should provide a more detailed analysis of the number of trainable parameters for BOFT. The authors should provide the number of trainable parameters as a function of the number of layers and the number of neurons per layer. The authors should also compare the number of trainable parameters of BOFT to other finetuning methods such as OF
