\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "LongRoPE: Extending LLM Context Window Beyond 2 Million Tokens"}

### How does the short context window recovery actually work during inference?
Question:
The LongRoPE paper describes a 'shorter context window recovery' step where they search for new RoPE rescale factors for 4k and 8k lengths on the extended LLM. They say 'during inference, the LLM dynamically adjusts the corresponding RoPE rescale factors.' But I'm confused about the mechanics. Does this mean the model has multiple sets of rescale factors stored, and at inference time it switches between them based on the input length? If so, what happens if the input is, say, 10k tokens—does it use the 256k factors or the 8k factors? How does the model handle inputs that are between the recovered short context lengths (4k/8k) and the full extended length (2048k)?
Answer:
Based on the paper, the short context window recovery works by maintaining separate sets of RoPE rescale factors and switching between them at inference time based on the input sequence length.

The key passage is in the Introduction: *"During inference, if the sequence length is less than 8k, we update RoPE with the searched rescale factors."* Combined with the more detailed description in Section 3.3: *"During inference, the LLM dynamically adjusts the corresponding RoPE rescale factors."*

So the mechanism is as follows. After the progressive extension to 2048k, the model has one set of searched rescale factors $\{\lambda_i\}$ optimized for the full 2048k context window. The authors then perform an additional evolutionary search on the already-extended LLM to find a *second* set of rescale factors specifically optimized for short context lengths (4k and 8k). These short-context factors use a reduced maximum search range for $\lambda_i$ to encourage less positional interpolation, which is appropriate because shorter sequences don't need aggressive compression of position indices. At inference time, the model checks the input sequence length: if it is less than 8k tokens, it applies the short-context rescale factors; otherwise, it uses the 2048k rescale factors.

For your specific question about a 10k token input: since 10k exceeds the 8k threshold, the model would use the 2048k rescale factors, not the short-context recovery factors. The paper establishes a binary switching point at 8k rather than interpolating between factor sets for intermediate lengths. This makes sense because the performance degradation they are trying to recover occurs specifically within the *original* context window (4k for LLaMA2), and 8k serves as a reasonable boundary for "short context." For lengths between 8k and 2048k, the 2048k factors are expected to perform adequately since the perplexity results in Tables 3–5 show that the 2048k model maintains reasonable (and often decreasing) perplexity across all evaluated lengths from 8k up to 2048k.

Intuitively, the problem this solves is that a $512\times$ extension ratio compresses the original 4k positions into an extremely narrow region of the rotary embedding space, making it hard for the model to distinguish nearby tokens. The recovery factors "un-compress" the positional encoding when the input is short enough that this aggressive interpolation isn't needed. For longer inputs (8k and above), the full extension factors are necessary to accommodate the large number of positions, and the perplexity results suggest this works well across that range.