\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "LongRoPE: Extending LLM Context Window Beyond 2 Million Tokens"}

### Why does LongRoPE fine-tune at 128k first before fine-tuning at 256k, rather than directly at 256k?
Question:
In the progressive extension strategy, LongRoPE first fine-tunes LLaMA2 for 400 steps using 128k RoPE rescale factors, then switches to 256k rescale factors and fine-tunes for another 600 steps. The paper says 'this method proves more efficient than directly fine-tuning to 256k.' Why is this two-stage approach more efficient? Is it because the 128k model provides a better initialization for the 256k fine-tuning, similar to how the searched RoPE provides better initialization for the first fine-tuning stage? Or is there a computational reason related to shorter sequence lengths being faster to train on?
Answer:
The two-stage approach is motivated primarily by the difficulty of fine-tuning under large extension ratios, which the paper identifies as one of three major obstacles to context window extension. The authors note that "it's challenging to well fine-tune the LLMs under a large extension ratio." When extending directly from 4k to 256k, the extension ratio is $64\times$, meaning over $90\%$ of positions are new and untrained. These new positions introduce catastrophic values that cause out-of-distribution issues, making fine-tuning difficult to converge. By first fine-tuning to 128k ($32\times$ extension), the model adapts to a more manageable range of new positions, and the resulting checkpoint provides a much better initialization for the subsequent extension to 256k.

Your intuition is correct that this is analogous to how the searched RoPE provides better initialization for fine-tuning. The paper's Finding 3 emphasizes that non-uniform positional interpolation "minimizes information loss and provides a better initialization for fine-tuning." The same principle applies recursively: a model that has already been fine-tuned at 128k has learned to handle positions and attention patterns up to that length, so when you swap in the 256k rescale factors and continue fine-tuning, the model starts from a representation that has already partially adapted to long contexts rather than from the original 4k-trained weights. This progressive curriculum reduces the effective "shock" of new positions at each stage.

There is also a computational dimension. Training on 128k sequences requires 8 A100 GPUs, while 256k sequences require 16 A100 GPUs, and self-attention cost is quadratic in sequence length. The first 400 steps at 128k are therefore significantly cheaper per step than training at 256k. If direct fine-tuning to 256k requires more total steps to converge (due to the harder optimization landscape from the larger extension ratio), the two-stage approach can achieve the same final quality with fewer expensive 256k-length steps. The paper does not provide explicit step counts for a direct-to-256k baseline, but the design reflects a trade-off where cheaper early steps at 128k stabilize the model before committing resources to the more expensive 256k training.

The broader principle here connects to curriculum learning and progressive extension strategies in deep learning more generally. Just as the paper's progressive strategy extends from 256k to 2048k via a second positional interpolation search (exploiting the $8\times$ non-fine-tuning extension capability), the 128k-to-256k fine-tuning stage decomposes a hard optimization problem into two easier ones, each with a smaller extension ratio and better-conditioned loss landscape.