\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### How does bagging actually solve the 'excessive prompt size' problem for high-dimensional tables?
Question:
The authors state that FeatLLM can handle datasets with a large number of features (like 'Communities' or 'Myocardial' with over 100 attributes) by using bagging. However, the prompt still needs to contain the task description and feature definitions. If the feature descriptions themselves are too large to fit in the context window, how does bagging the samples or features actually reduce the prompt size enough to make it feasible? Does bagging only help if the number of *samples* is the bottleneck, or can it also reduce the number of *features* sent in the prompt?
Answer:
The bagging approach in FeatLLM specifically addresses the prompt size limitation by partitioning the feature space across multiple independent queries to the LLM. Your intuition regarding the fixed overhead of feature definitions is correct: if the total number of features $d$ is so large that all definitions $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^d$ cannot fit into the context window simultaneously, it is mathematically impossible for the LLM to "see" the entire table in a single inference call.

Bagging solves this by selecting a subset of features for each trial. Instead of attempting to fit all $d$ features into a single prompt, the framework selects a smaller, manageable subset of features in each iteration. In each trial, the LLM is prompted with a task description, a limited set of feature definitions, and a few-shot example set. The LLM then generates rules based only on the subset of features provided in that specific prompt. While any single trial might result in a "weak learner" because it lacks information on the excluded features, the ensemble mechanism compensates for this. By aggregating the results from multiple trials—where each trial focuses on different subsets of the total features—the final model captures the relationships across the entire feature space without ever exceeding the token limit in any single turn.

Therefore, bagging does not only help when the number of samples is the bottleneck; it is a fundamental strategy for handling high-dimensional feature sets. The paper explicitly states that bagging is used to select a subset of features *or* instances for each trial. This allows the framework to handle datasets like "Communities" or "Myocardial" by ensuring that the prompt remains within the allowable input size, while the ensemble of various "weak learners" (each seeing a different part of the data) nullifies the impact of incomplete feature or instance coverage in individual trials. In essence, bagging allows the model to "see" the whole table by looking at it through several different "keyholes" and combining the views.