--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>PPO stands for Preferred Provider Organization. It is a type of health insurance plan that allows members to receive care from doctors and hospitals that are contracted with the plan. This means that the plan will pay a set amount for each service, which is called a "capitation." The capitation amount is usually lower than the average cost of the service, so the doctor or hospital will be paid more if they provide more services. This is a way for the plan to save money by paying less for the services it receives.

For example, if a doctor charges $100 for a visit and the capitation is $50, the doctor will be paid $50 for each visit. If the doctor provides 10 visits, he will be paid $500. If the doctor provides only 5 visits, he will be only paid $250. This is a way to encourage doctors to provide more services, because they will be paid more for each visit.

Another way that PPO plans save money is by negotiating discounts with hospitals and doctors. They may be able to negotiate a lower price for services, which will be passed on to the members of the plan. This is another way that PPO plans can save money.

Finally, PPO plans often have a network of doctors and hospitals that are part of the plan. This means members can go to these doctors and hospitals without having to pay any additional fees. This is another way PPO plans can save members money.

In summary, PPO plans are a type of health insurance that allows members to receive services from doctors and hospitals that have been contracted with the plan. These doctors and hospitals will be paid a set amount for each visit, which is called a capitation. The capitation amount is generally lower than the average cost for the service, so the doctors and hospitals will be able to provide more services for less money. PPO plans also often have a network of contracted doctors and hospitals, which means members can go to them without having to pay any extra fees. This is another<|endoftext|>
