----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Former Congressman George Santos appeals from a final judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Cote, J.) dismissing his copyright infringement and state law claims against Jimmy Kimmel, American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. (“ABC”), which airs Kimmel’s late-night show Jimmy Kimmel Live! (“JKL”), and ABC’s parent company, The Walt Disney Company.
fact: In "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," former Congressman George Santos appealed a final judgment from the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and in that judgment the district court dismissed "copyright infringement and state law claims".
target:  "copyright infringement and state law claims".
probe: In "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," former Congressman George Santos appealed a final judgment from the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and in that judgment the district court dismissed

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Former Congressman George Santos appeals from a final judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Cote, J.) dismissing his copyright infringement and state law claims against Jimmy Kimmel, American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. (“ABC”), which airs Kimmel’s late-night show Jimmy Kimmel Live! (“JKL”), and ABC’s parent company, The Walt Disney Company.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, George Santos appealed from a final judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissing his copyright infringement and state law claims against Jimmy Kimmel, ABC, and ABC’s parent company, which the opinion identified as "The Walt Disney Company".
target:  "The Walt Disney Company".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, George Santos appealed from a final judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissing his copyright infringement and state law claims against Jimmy Kimmel, ABC, and ABC’s parent company, which the opinion identified as

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos fulfilled each request, and Kimmel then aired the videos on JKL as part of a mocking series of segments titled “Will Santos Say It?”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", after Santos fulfilled each Cameo request, Kimmel aired the videos as part of the mocking segment series "Will Santos Say It?" on "JKL".
target:  "JKL".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", after Santos fulfilled each Cameo request, Kimmel aired the videos as part of the mocking segment series "Will Santos Say It?" on

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos fulfilled each request, and Kimmel then aired the videos on JKL as part of a mocking series of segments titled “Will Santos Say It?”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," after Kimmel used fictitious names to request personalized videos from Santos through Cameo and later aired those videos on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, the title of the mocking segment series on the show was "Will Santos Say It?"
target:  "Will Santos Say It?"
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," after Kimmel used fictitious names to request personalized videos from Santos through Cameo and later aired those videos on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, the title of the mocking segment series on the show was

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The District Court dismissed the complaint for failure to state a claim under Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, concluding that the copyright claims were barred by the fair use doctrine and that Santos’s state law claims either were preempted by the Copyright Act or failed to state a claim.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed Santos’s complaint for failure to state a claim under "Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure".
target:  "Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed Santos’s complaint for failure to state a claim under

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The District Court dismissed the complaint for failure to state a claim under Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, concluding that the copyright claims were barred by the fair use doctrine and that Santos’s state law claims either were preempted by the Copyright Act or failed to state a claim.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed Santos’s copyright infringement claims under Rule 12(b)(6) by relying on a defense under copyright law, the fair use doctrine.
target:  the fair use doctrine.
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed Santos’s copyright infringement claims under Rule 12(b)(6) by relying on a defense under copyright law,

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because we agree that Santos’s copyright claims were barred by the fair use doctrine and further conclude that each of Santos’s state law claims failed to state a claim, we affirm.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on appeal from a Rule 12(b)(6) dismissal, the court said Santos’s copyright infringement claims were barred by "the fair use doctrine".
target:  "the fair use doctrine".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on appeal from a Rule 12(b)(6) dismissal, the court said Santos’s copyright infringement claims were barred by

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review de novo the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6).
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the Court of Appeals reviews the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6) de novo.
target:  de novo.
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the Court of Appeals reviews the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6)

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We consider “the facts alleged in the complaint, documents attached to the complaint as exhibits, and documents incorporated by reference in the complaint.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, where the Second Circuit reviewed de novo the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6), the category of materials it may consider is documents attached to the complaint as exhibits.
target:  documents attached to the complaint as exhibits.
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, where the Second Circuit reviewed de novo the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6), the category of materials it may consider is

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We consider “the facts alleged in the complaint, documents attached to the complaint as exhibits, and documents incorporated by reference in the complaint.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while reviewing the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6) de novo, the Second Circuit stated that courts consider, in addition to the facts alleged in the complaint and exhibits attached to it, "documents incorporated by reference in the complaint".
target:  "documents incorporated by reference in the complaint".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while reviewing the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6) de novo, the Second Circuit stated that courts consider, in addition to the facts alleged in the complaint and exhibits attached to it,

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In doing so, we may also take judicial notice of “copyright registrations[] as published in the Copyright Office’s registry.”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", on de novo review of the District Court’s dismissal under Rule 12(b)(6), the court may take judicial notice of copyright registrations as published in "the Copyright Office’s registry".
target:  "the Copyright Office’s registry".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", on de novo review of the District Court’s dismissal under Rule 12(b)(6), the court may take judicial notice of copyright registrations as published in

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In assessing the “purpose and character of the use” factor, we “focus[] chiefly on the degree to which the use is transformative, i.e., whether the new work merely supersedes the objects of the original creation, or instead adds something new, with a further purpose or different character.”
fact: In "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court assesses the "purpose and character of the use" factor under fair use, it focuses chiefly on "the degree to which the use is transformative".
target:  "the degree to which the use is transformative".
probe: In "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court assesses the "purpose and character of the use" factor under fair use, it focuses chiefly on

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In assessing the “purpose and character of the use” factor, we “focus[] chiefly on the degree to which the use is transformative, i.e., whether the new work merely supersedes the objects of the original creation, or instead adds something new, with a further purpose or different character.”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court assessed the Copyright Act’s fair-use factor for the “purpose and character of the use,” it said the inquiry turns on whether the new work merely supersedes the original or instead adds something new with "a further purpose or different character"
target:  "a further purpose or different character"
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court assessed the Copyright Act’s fair-use factor for the “purpose and character of the use,” it said the inquiry turns on whether the new work merely supersedes the original or instead adds something new with

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It may be “so clearly established by a complaint as to support dismissal of a copyright infringement claim” at the pleading stage.
fact: In "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the opinion states that, in a copyright action, fair use may be "so clearly established by a complaint as to support dismissal of a copyright infringement claim" at "the pleading stage".
target:  "the pleading stage".
probe: In "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the opinion states that, in a copyright action, fair use may be "so clearly established by a complaint as to support dismissal of a copyright infringement claim" at

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It may be “so clearly established by a complaint as to support dismissal of a copyright infringement claim” at the pleading stage.
fact: According to the opinion in George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the court explains that fair use may be so clearly established by a complaint that dismissal is warranted at the pleading stage for a copyright infringement claim.
target:  a copyright infringement claim.
probe: According to the opinion in George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the court explains that fair use may be so clearly established by a complaint that dismissal is warranted at the pleading stage for

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: maintains that the use was not transformative because Kimmel “instigated the creation of the original Works” and accordingly is the “designer[]” of their original purpose.
fact: In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," under the Copyright Act's fair use doctrine and the argument rejecting transformativeness, Kimmel allegedly "instigated" "the creation of the original Works".
target:  "the creation of the original Works".
probe: In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," under the Copyright Act's fair use doctrine and the argument rejecting transformativeness, Kimmel allegedly "instigated"

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos does not dispute the District Court’s finding that the purpose of the allegedly infringing use was “to comment on the willingness of Santos . . . to say absurd things for money.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, in the fair-use analysis in the copyright action, Santos did not dispute the District Court’s finding about the purpose of the allegedly infringing use; according to that finding, the purpose of the use was "to comment on the willingness of Santos . . . to say absurd things for money".
target:  "to comment on the willingness of Santos . . . to say absurd things for money".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, in the fair-use analysis in the copyright action, Santos did not dispute the District Court’s finding about the purpose of the allegedly infringing use; according to that finding, the purpose of the use was

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos does not dispute the District Court’s finding that the purpose of the allegedly infringing use was “to comment on the willingness of Santos . . . to say absurd things for money.”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the District Court found that the purpose of the allegedly infringing use was to comment on Santos’s willingness to "say absurd things for money".
target:  "say absurd things for money".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the District Court found that the purpose of the allegedly infringing use was to comment on Santos’s willingness to

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But whether a secondary use is transformative turns on what a reasonable observer thinks, not the subjective intent of the copyright holder or that of the secondary user.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court considered whether a secondary use was transformative in the copyright fair use analysis, the inquiry was controlled by the perspective of a reasonable observer.
target:  a reasonable observer.
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court considered whether a secondary use was transformative in the copyright fair use analysis, the inquiry was controlled by the perspective of

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But whether a secondary use is transformative turns on what a reasonable observer thinks, not the subjective intent of the copyright holder or that of the secondary user.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court considered whether a secondary use was transformative in this copyright action, it said that that issue is not determined by "the subjective intent of the copyright holder or that of the secondary user".
target:  "the subjective intent of the copyright holder or that of the secondary user".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court considered whether a secondary use was transformative in this copyright action, it said that that issue is not determined by

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508, 544 (2023) (“[T]he subjective intent of the user (or the subjective interpretation of a court) [does not] determine the purpose of the use.”
fact: In the copyright action George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while discussing fair use and quoting Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, the court stated that, according to that decision, the purpose of the use is not determined by the subjective intent of the user.
target:  the subjective intent of the user.
probe: In the copyright action George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while discussing fair use and quoting Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, the court stated that, according to that decision, the purpose of the use is not determined by

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508, 544 (2023) (“[T]he subjective intent of the user (or the subjective interpretation of a court) [does not] determine the purpose of the use.”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," in discussing the fair use inquiry under the Copyright Act and quoting Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508, 544 (2023), the court stated that, in addition to the user’s subjective intent, the subjective interpretation that does not determine the purpose of the use is "the subjective interpretation of a court".
target:  "the subjective interpretation of a court".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," in discussing the fair use inquiry under the Copyright Act and quoting Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508, 544 (2023), the court stated that, in addition to the user’s subjective intent, the subjective interpretation that does not determine the purpose of the use is

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As Santos’s original allegation acknowledges, a reasonable observer here would think the videos conveyed “feelings of hope, strength, perseverance, encouragement, and positivity,” not a willingness to say absurd things for money.
fact: In the court’s fair-use discussion in George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, when addressing whether the videos were transformative, Santos’s original allegation said a reasonable observer would think the videos conveyed "feelings of hope, strength, perseverance, encouragement, and positivity".
target:  "feelings of hope, strength, perseverance, encouragement, and positivity".
probe: In the court’s fair-use discussion in George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, when addressing whether the videos were transformative, Santos’s original allegation said a reasonable observer would think the videos conveyed

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As Santos’s original allegation acknowledges, a reasonable observer here would think the videos conveyed “feelings of hope, strength, perseverance, encouragement, and positivity,” not a willingness to say absurd things for money.
fact: In the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," during its discussion of whether the videos were transformative for fair-use purposes, the court said a reasonable observer would not think the videos conveyed "a willingness to say absurd things for money".
target:  "a willingness to say absurd things for money".
probe: In the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," during its discussion of whether the videos were transformative for fair-use purposes, the court said a reasonable observer would not think the videos conveyed

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos also contends that Kimmel’s false representations demonstrate bad faith and thus nullify the fair use defense.
fact: In the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," Santos argues that Kimmel’s false representations show conduct that would affect Kimmel’s fair use defense in a particular way: bad faith.
target:  bad faith.
probe: In the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," Santos argues that Kimmel’s false representations show conduct that would affect Kimmel’s fair use defense in a particular way:

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos also contends that Kimmel’s false representations demonstrate bad faith and thus nullify the fair use defense.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," Santos argues that Kimmel’s false representations demonstrate bad faith and therefore nullify "the fair use defense".
target:  "the fair use defense".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," Santos argues that Kimmel’s false representations demonstrate bad faith and therefore nullify

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It is true that the Supreme Court stated in Harper & Row that “[f]air use presupposes good faith and fair dealing.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, after addressing Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s false representations should nullify the fair use defense and quoting Harper & Row, the Supreme Court said fair use presupposes "good faith and fair dealing".
target:  "good faith and fair dealing".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, after addressing Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s false representations should nullify the fair use defense and quoting Harper & Row, the Supreme Court said fair use presupposes

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It is true that the Supreme Court stated in Harper & Row that “[f]air use presupposes good faith and fair dealing.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the court discussed Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s alleged false representations defeated the fair use defense and noted that the Supreme Court stated that "fair use presupposes good faith and fair dealing" in "Harper & Row".
target:  "Harper & Row".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the court discussed Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s alleged false representations defeated the fair use defense and noted that the Supreme Court stated that "fair use presupposes good faith and fair dealing" in

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In any event, Santos’s complaint contradicts any claim of a purpose on the Defendants’ part to “supplant” Santos’s “commercially valuable right” in the videos.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," in addressing Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s false representations showed bad faith and defeated fair use, the court said Santos’s complaint contradicted any claim that the Defendants intended to supplant.
target:  supplant.
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," in addressing Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s false representations showed bad faith and defeated fair use, the court said Santos’s complaint contradicted any claim that the Defendants intended to

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We thus agree with the District Court that the first factor strongly supports a finding of fair use.
fact: In the copyright action George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while analyzing the fair use defense, the court said the first fair use factor strongly supports "a finding of fair use".
target:  "a finding of fair use".
probe: In the copyright action George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while analyzing the fair use defense, the court said the first fair use factor strongly supports

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We thus agree with the District Court that the first factor strongly supports a finding of fair use.
fact: In the copyright action in George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the court considered the fair-use defense under the Copyright Act and agreed that the factor that strongly supports a finding of fair use was "the first factor"
target:  "the first factor"
probe: In the copyright action in George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the court considered the fair-use defense under the Copyright Act and agreed that the factor that strongly supports a finding of fair use was

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Among other things, the relevant copyright registrations establish that the videos were published on the same day they were created.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the opinion states that the videos were published on the same day they were created, as established by "the relevant copyright registrations".
target:  "the relevant copyright registrations".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the opinion states that the videos were published on the same day they were created, as established by

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Among other things, the relevant copyright registrations establish that the videos were published on the same day they were created.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the relevant copyright registrations show that the videos were published "on the same day they were created".
target:  "on the same day they were created".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the relevant copyright registrations show that the videos were published

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And it is clear on the face of Santos’s complaint that Santos has not suffered market harm within the meaning of the fourth fair use factor because “[w]e ask not whether the second work would damage the market for the first (by, for example, devaluing it through parody or criticism), but whether it usurps the market for the first by offering a competing substitute.”
fact: In the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the court said that it was clear from Santos’s complaint that he had not suffered market harm, which in the Copyright Act’s fair use analysis concerned "the fourth fair use factor".
target:  "the fourth fair use factor".
probe: In the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the court said that it was clear from Santos’s complaint that he had not suffered market harm, which in the Copyright Act’s fair use analysis concerned

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Hachette Book Grp., 115 F.4th at 189 (quotation marks omitted); see Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510 U.S. 569, 592 (1994) (“[T]he unlikelihood that creators of imaginative works will license critical reviews or lampoons of their own productions removes such uses from the very notion of a potential licensing market.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, in discussing the fourth fair use factor and quoting Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., the court noted that creators of imaginative works are unlikely to license "critical reviews or lampoons".
target:  "critical reviews or lampoons".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, in discussing the fourth fair use factor and quoting Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., the court noted that creators of imaginative works are unlikely to license

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Hachette Book Grp., 115 F.4th at 189 (quotation marks omitted); see Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510 U.S. 569, 592 (1994) (“[T]he unlikelihood that creators of imaginative works will license critical reviews or lampoons of their own productions removes such uses from the very notion of a potential licensing market.”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when discussing the fourth fair use factor and market harm, the court quoted Campbell for the proposition that creators of imaginative works are unlikely to license critical reviews or lampoons of their own productions from the very notion of "a potential licensing market".
target:  "a potential licensing market".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when discussing the fourth fair use factor and market harm, the court quoted Campbell for the proposition that creators of imaginative works are unlikely to license critical reviews or lampoons of their own productions from the very notion of

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos also appeals the District Court’s dismissal of his state law claims for breach of contract, breach of implied contract, and fraudulent inducement.
fact: In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," Santos also appeals the District Court’s dismissal of certain claims, including breach of contract, breach of implied contract, and fraudulent inducement; those claims are state law claims.
target:  state law claims.
probe: In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," Santos also appeals the District Court’s dismissal of certain claims, including breach of contract, breach of implied contract, and fraudulent inducement; those claims are

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos responds that those claims are “qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim” and thus not preempted.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, when Santos argued that his state law claims for breach of contract and breach of implied contract were not preempted by the Copyright Act, he described those claims as "qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim".
target:  "qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, when Santos argued that his state law claims for breach of contract and breach of implied contract were not preempted by the Copyright Act, he described those claims as

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Santos responds that those claims are “qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim” and thus not preempted.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos argued that his state law breach of contract and breach of implied contract claims were "qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim" and, on that basis, said those claims were "not preempted".
target:  "not preempted".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos argued that his state law breach of contract and breach of implied contract claims were "qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim" and, on that basis, said those claims were

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We need not resolve this issue, however, because Santos’s state law contract claims fail to state a claim for relief under state law.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the Second Circuit did not decide whether the claims were preempted by the Copyright Act; instead, it said that the claims that failed to state a claim for relief under state law were Santos’s state law contract claims.
target:  Santos’s state law contract claims.
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the Second Circuit did not decide whether the claims were preempted by the Copyright Act; instead, it said that the claims that failed to state a claim for relief under state law were

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We need not resolve this issue, however, because Santos’s state law contract claims fail to state a claim for relief under state law.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the Second Circuit did not decide whether Santos’s breach of contract and implied contract claims were preempted by the Copyright Act; instead, it said those contract claims fail to state a claim for relief under "state law".
target:  "state law".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the Second Circuit did not decide whether Santos’s breach of contract and implied contract claims were preempted by the Copyright Act; instead, it said those contract claims fail to state a claim for relief under

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under Illinois law, which governs the Terms of Service, there is a “strong presumption against conferring benefits to noncontracting third parties.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the Cameo Terms of Service under which Santos brought his direct breach of contract claim are governed by Illinois law.
target:  Illinois law.
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the Cameo Terms of Service under which Santos brought his direct breach of contract claim are governed by

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under Illinois law, which governs the Terms of Service, there is a “strong presumption against conferring benefits to noncontracting third parties.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while discussing Santos’s direct breach of contract claim under the Cameo Terms of Service governed by Illinois law, the Second Circuit noted that Illinois has a strong presumption against conferring benefits to "noncontracting third parties".
target:  "noncontracting third parties".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while discussing Santos’s direct breach of contract claim under the Cameo Terms of Service governed by Illinois law, the Second Circuit noted that Illinois has a strong presumption against conferring benefits to

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Here, Santos identifies nothing close to an “express declaration” that the relevant provisions of the Terms of Service apply to him or other noncontracting parties.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, Santos’s direct breach of contract claim under the Cameo Terms of Service depended on showing that the relevant provisions of those Terms applied to “him or other noncontracting parties”
target:  “him or other noncontracting parties”
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, Santos’s direct breach of contract claim under the Cameo Terms of Service depended on showing that the relevant provisions of those Terms applied to

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, other provisions of the Terms of Service do contain third-party beneficiary language, indicating that when the parties to that agreement intended to allow provisions of the contract to be enforced by third parties, they said so expressly.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", other provisions of the Cameo Terms of Service show that when the parties wanted third parties to be able to enforce the contract, they said so expressly through third-party beneficiary language.
target:  third-party beneficiary language.
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", other provisions of the Cameo Terms of Service show that when the parties wanted third parties to be able to enforce the contract, they said so expressly through

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, other provisions of the Terms of Service do contain third-party beneficiary language, indicating that when the parties to that agreement intended to allow provisions of the contract to be enforced by third parties, they said so expressly.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the Cameo Terms of Service included third-party beneficiary language, and when the parties intended to let third parties enforce provisions of the contract, they said so "expressly".
target:  "expressly".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the Cameo Terms of Service included third-party beneficiary language, and when the parties intended to let third parties enforce provisions of the contract, they said so

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: York law, which governs this claim, we consider “the intent of the parties and the surrounding circumstances” to determine “[w]hether an implied-in-fact contract was formed and, if so, the extent of its terms.”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," on Santos’s state-law implied-in-fact contract claim under York law, courts consider whether such a contract was formed and, if so, the extent of its terms by looking to “the intent of the parties and the surrounding circumstances”.
target:  “the intent of the parties and the surrounding circumstances”.
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," on Santos’s state-law implied-in-fact contract claim under York law, courts consider whether such a contract was formed and, if so, the extent of its terms by looking to

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this case, however, Santos’s complaint does not “allege, in nonconclusory language, . . . the essential terms of the parties’ . . . contract, including those specific provisions of the contract upon which liability is predicated.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, when the court discussed Santos’s state-law contract claim, it said Santos’s complaint does not allege in nonconclusory language "the essential terms of the parties’ . . . contract".
target:  "the essential terms of the parties’ . . . contract".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, when the court discussed Santos’s state-law contract claim, it said Santos’s complaint does not allege in nonconclusory language

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this case, however, Santos’s complaint does not “allege, in nonconclusory language, . . . the essential terms of the parties’ . . . contract, including those specific provisions of the contract upon which liability is predicated.”
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," in discussing Santos’s complaint and its failure to state an implied-in-fact contract claim under New York law, the court said the complaint did not allege in nonconclusory language "those specific provisions of the contract upon which liability is predicated".
target:  "those specific provisions of the contract upon which liability is predicated".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," in discussing Santos’s complaint and its failure to state an implied-in-fact contract claim under New York law, the court said the complaint did not allege in nonconclusory language

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Caniglia v. Chi. Trib.-N.Y. News Syndicate, Inc., 612 N.Y.S.2d 146, 147 (1st Dep’t 1994); see App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79 (failing to plead the essential terms of the putative implied contract that the Defendants allegedly breached).
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court discussed Santos’s implied-contract claim under New York law, App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79 failed to plead the essential terms.
target:  the essential terms.
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court discussed Santos’s implied-contract claim under New York law, App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79 failed to plead

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Caniglia v. Chi. Trib.-N.Y. News Syndicate, Inc., 612 N.Y.S.2d 146, 147 (1st Dep’t 1994); see App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79 (failing to plead the essential terms of the putative implied contract that the Defendants allegedly breached).
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79, Santos’s complaint failed to plead the essential terms of the contract that it did not allege in nonconclusory language: the putative implied contract.
target:  the putative implied contract.
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79, Santos’s complaint failed to plead the essential terms of the contract that it did not allege in nonconclusory language:

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Nor does Santos plausibly allege that there was “an indication of a meeting of minds of the parties constituting an agreement” that Kimmel would adhere to the Terms of Service.
fact: In the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," Santos’s state-law contract claim was dismissed because his complaint did not plausibly allege a necessary element of an implied agreement under the Cameo Terms of Service: he failed to plausibly allege facts showing that Kimmel agreed to adhere to the Terms of Service, an indication of a meeting of minds of the parties constituting an agreement.
target:  an indication of a meeting of minds of the parties constituting an agreement.
probe: In the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," Santos’s state-law contract claim was dismissed because his complaint did not plausibly allege a necessary element of an implied agreement under the Cameo Terms of Service: he failed to plausibly allege facts showing that Kimmel agreed to adhere to the Terms of Service,

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, Santos challenges the District Court’s dismissal of his fraudulent inducement claim for failure to allege any out-of-pocket loss as required under New York law.
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, after Santos challenged the District Court’s dismissal of his fraudulent inducement claim under New York law, the court said he failed to allege the required "out-of-pocket loss".
target:  "out-of-pocket loss".
probe: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, after Santos challenged the District Court’s dismissal of his fraudulent inducement claim under New York law, the court said he failed to allege the required

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, Santos challenges the District Court’s dismissal of his fraudulent inducement claim for failure to allege any out-of-pocket loss as required under New York law.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the District Court dismissed Santos’s fraudulent inducement claim because he did not allege any out-of-pocket loss, which was required for that claim under "New York law".
target:  "New York law".
probe: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," the District Court dismissed Santos’s fraudulent inducement claim because he did not allege any out-of-pocket loss, which was required for that claim under

