--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data structure in computer science. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is used to represent the butterfly network, which is a communication network that is commonly used in computer networks. The butterfly structure is also known as the trellis structure, and it is a sparse matrix that can be used to represent the butterfly graph, which is a communication graph that is commonly used in the field of computer networks. The butterfly graph is a directed graph that is used to represent a communication network, and it is a graph that is composed of a set of nodes and a set of directed edges that connect the nodes. The butterfly structure is an efficient way to represent the butterfly graph because it is a sparse matrix, which means that it has a lot of zero elements. This makes it possible to store the butterfly structure in a more compact way than the butterfly graph, which would require a lot of memory if it was stored as a dense matrix. The butterfly structure is used in the BOFT method to create a sparse matrix that is then used to finetune the weights of a neural network. The BOFT method is able to finetune a neural network with a much smaller number of parameters than the OFT method, which is the standard method for finetuning neural networks. The BOFT method uses a sparse matrix that is created using the butterfly structure, and this sparse matrix is used to finetune a small number of the weights in the neural network. The BOft method is able to finenetune a neural network with only a small number of parameters, which makes it possible to finetune large neural networks with a much smaller number<|endoftext|>
