\title{A Textbook about the Paper: "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization"}

Chapter 1: # Introduction to Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning and Orthogonal Constraints

The rapid advancement of artificial intelligence has been driven by the emergence of large foundation models, such as ChatGPT and Stable Diffusion, which exhibit remarkable generalization capabilities across a wide spectrum of tasks. These models, however, come with a prohibitive cost: the sheer number of parameters required to achieve state-of-the-art performance has grown exponentially, with models like GPT-3 containing approximately 175 billion parameters. This scale renders training a foundation model from scratch computationally infeasible for most researchers and organizations. Consequently, the field has shifted its focus from training new models to efficiently adapting existing pre-trained models to specific downstream tasks. This paradigm shift necessitates methods that can leverage the vast knowledge encoded in pre-trained weights without the need for retraining the entire network, thereby democratizing access to these powerful tools while managing computational resources effectively.

To address the challenge of adapting massive models, three primary paradigms for efficient task adaptation have emerged: model fine-tuning, adapter tuning, and prompt tuning. Model fine-tuning is distinguished by its simplicity and lack of inference latency; it involves keeping the model architecture unchanged while updating a subset of the model's parameters. In contrast, adapter tuning introduces additional trainable parameters into the original architecture, often as small modules inserted between layers, which increases memory usage during inference. Prompt tuning takes a different approach by attaching trainable prefix tokens to the input data rather than modifying the model weights directly. Among these strategies, model fine-tuning stands out as a particularly powerful approach because it maintains the original model structure and introduces no overhead during the inference phase. The fundamental principle guiding model fine-tuning is to ensure that the fine-tuned model remains sufficiently similar to the pre-trained model according to specific measurements, thereby preserving the valuable knowledge acquired during pre-training.

A critical insight in modern fine-tuning is that simply using a small learning rate is an ad hoc method to limit deviation from pre-trained weights; a more principled approach involves preserving the structural relationships within the weight matrices themselves. Specifically, researchers have identified that preserving pairwise angles between neurons is essential for maintaining semantic knowledge. If neurons in a layer are transformed such that their relative angles change drastically, the geometric structure of the learned representations may be distorted, leading to catastrophic forgetting or poor generalization. This geometric perspective motivates Orthogonal Fine-Tuning (OFT), a framework where neurons within the same layer are transformed by a shared orthogonal matrix. By definition, an orthogonal matrix preserves vector lengths and angles; therefore, applying such a transformation ensures that pairwise angles between neurons are provably preserved throughout the fine-tuning process. This property allows OFT to update weights multiplicatively while rigorously maintaining the relational information established during pre-training.

Despite its theoretical elegance and demonstrated success in tasks like text-to-image generation, standard Orthogonal Fine-Tuning faces a significant bottleneck regarding parameter efficiency. A dense orthogonal matrix of dimension $d$ requires $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$ trainable parameters due to its high dimensionality. For large foundation models where $d$ can be very large (e.g., thousands or tens of thousands), this parameter count becomes comparable to or even exceeds that of other efficient methods like LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation), which relies on additive low-rank updates with far fewer parameters. To mitigate this issue without abandoning orthogonality entirely, standard OFT often employs a block-diagonal structure. In this approach, the large orthogonal matrix is decomposed into smaller independent orthogonal blocks along the diagonal. While this reduces the number of parameters significantly—scaling linearly with $d$ rather than quadratically—it introduces severe limitations on expressivity and imposes rigid inductive biases on the learning process.

The block-diagonal compromise in OFT creates a fundamental trade-off between parameter efficiency and model expressivity that limits its general applicability. By forcing dimensions of a neuron into disjoint groups that are transformed independently based on their indices, this structure assumes that features within different blocks do not need to interact globally during adaptation. This assumption introduces an undesirable sparsity pattern where information cannot flow freely between all dimensions of a neuron vector. Consequently, block-diagonal orthogonal matrices cannot approximate classic linear transforms or dense interactions as effectively as full orthogonal matrices would allow. Furthermore, determining an optimal block size or sparsity pattern remains an open problem; choosing blocks that are too small restricts expressivity too much, while larger blocks negate parameter efficiency gains. The inability of block-diagonal structures to recover dense transformations means they may fail to capture complex dependencies required for diverse downstream tasks in vision and language processing.

Ultimately, the limitations of standard OFT highlight a critical gap in current parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods: how to construct a dense orthogonal matrix that preserves geometric properties while remaining computationally feasible in terms of trainable parameters. The ideal solution would allow for global interactions between all neuron dimensions—ensuring high expressivity—without requiring $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$ parameters or introducing arbitrary sparsity patterns like those found in block-diagonal approaches. Addressing this challenge requires rethinking how orthogonal matrices are parameterized and constructed within neural networks. By viewing matrix factorization through an information transmission lens and leveraging structured sparse factorizations inspired by algorithms like Cooley-Tukey's Fast Fourier Transform, it becomes possible to design methods that bridge this gap. Such approaches aim to compose dense orthogonal matrices from products of sparse components, thereby achieving parameter efficiency without sacrificing the ability to perform complex global transformations necessary for robust adaptation across various foundation models and downstream tasks.