--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is a general parameter-efficient finetuning framework that can be applied to any finetuning method that can be written as a matrix multiplication. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finitune method that uses a butterfly matrix to reduce the number of parameters. BOFT is an efficient finetuning method that reduces the number of trainable parameters by using a butterfly matrix. BOFT is a novel parameter-efficient finetuning approach that uses a butterfly matrix. BOft is a parameter-efficient fineteuning method that uses a block-diagonal matrix. BOFT is an effective finetuning method that is parameter-efficient. BOFT is a new parameter-efficient finetuning technique that uses a butterfly matrix.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient method for finetuning that uses a butterfly matrix.
BOFT is a parameter efficient finetuning method. BOFT is a butterfly matrix that reduces the number of parameters. The BOFT is a parameter efficient method for finetuning. BOFT is a matrix that reduces the number parameters. BOFT is parameter efficient finetuning. BOft is a matrix that reduces parameters. BOFT is butterfly matrix that reduces the parameters. BOFT is efficient finetuning method with fewer parameters. BOFT is finetuning method that has fewer parameters. BOFT reduces the number of trainable parameter. BOFT is a method that reduces the number parameters.

BOFT is a method that uses a butterfly to reduce the number of parameter.
BOFT is a method for finetuning with fewer parameters. BOft is a method that reduces parameters. BOft is an efficient finetune method that reduces the number parameter. BOFT is an approach that reduces the number of parameter. BOFT is method that reduces the number paramters. BOFT is a finetuning method that reduce the number of parameter. The BOFT is an efficient method that reduces the number params. BOFT is a technique that reduces the number of paramters. BOFT reduces the parameter. BOFT is parameter reduction. BOFT is a reduction in the number of parameters. Butterfly is a method that reduces parameter. BOFT is the reduction of parameter. BOFT reduces the parameters. BOft is the reduction of parameter.

BOFT is a reduction in parameter.
BOFT is parameter reduction. Butterfly is a reduction in parameter. BOFT is reduction in parameter. BOft is a reduction in parameter.

BOFT is parameter reduction.
BOFT is a reduction of parameter. BOft is reduction of parameter. BOFB is a reduction of parameter.

BOFB is a reduction of parameters.
BOFB is a reduction in parameter BOFB is a reduction in parameters. BOFB is a parameter reduction. BOFB is a method that reduces paramters. BOFB is a technique that reduces parameter. BOFB is reduction in parameter. Butterfly is a reduction of parameter BOFB is a method for reducing parameter. BOFB is method for reducing parameter. Butterfly is a method for reducing parameters. BOFB is method that reduces parameters. Butterfly is a reduction method. BOFB is a way to reduce parameter. BOFB is way to reduce parameter. Butterfly is a way to reduce parameters. BOFB is way that reduces parameter. BOF is a reduction in parameter

BOF is a reduction in parameters.
BOF is a reduction method. Butterfly is a reduction technique. BOF is a way to reduce paramters. BOF is a method for reducing paramters. BOF reduces the parameter. BOF is parameter reduction. BOF is a parameter reduction. Butterfly is parameter reduction. BOFB reduces the parameter. BOFB is parameter reduction. BOft reduces the parameter. BOft is parameter reduction. BOfb reduces the parameter. BOfb is parameter reduction. BOf reduces the parameter. BOf is parameter reduction. BO is a reduction in parameter
BO is a reduction in parameters.

BO is a reduction method.
BO is a reduction technique. B is a reduction in parameter B is a reduction in parameters B is a reduction method. B is a reduction technique. b is a reduction in parameter b is a reduction in parameters b is a reduction method. b is a reduction technique. Butterfly is a reduction parameter. Butterfly is a parameter reduction. butterfly is a reduction parameter. butterfly is a parameter reduction. bfly is a reduction parameter. bfly is a parameter reduction. Bfly is a reduction parameter Bfly is a parameter reduction.

Butterfly is a reduction parameter.
Butterfly is a parameter reduction.
Butterfly is reduction parameter. Butterfly is reduction parameter. Butterfly reduces the parameter. Butterfly is parameter reduction.
Butterflies is a reduction parameter. Butterflies is a parameter reduction. Butterflies is reduction parameter. Butterflies reduction parameter. Butterflies reduces the parameter. Butterflies is parameter reduction. Butterflies are a reduction parameter. Butterfiles is a reduction parameter. Buterflies is a reduction parameter.

Butterflies is a parameter reduction.
butterflies is a parameter
