--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a variant of OFT that uses a factorization of the weight matrix, which is a product of orthogonal matrices. This factorization is derived from the Gram-Schmidt process, which is a standard procedure for orthogonalizing a set of vectors. The factorization is then used to compute the orthogonal matrix that is needed to transform the weight matrix into an orthogonal matrix. The factorization is computationally efficient, as it only requires the computation of the Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization process. The paper also presents a block-diagonal variant of BOFT, which is computationally efficient and achieves similar parameter-efficiency to BOFT. The paper presents empirical results that show that BOFT can achieve parameter-efficiency comparable to OFT, while being more efficient than block-diagonal OFT. The paper also presents results that show that BOFF can achieve parameter-efficiency that is comparable to the best existing methods, such as the EfficientNet-B0 model. The paper concludes with a discussion of the advantages and limitations of BOFT.

The paper "Efficient Neural Network Training with Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a method for training neural networks that is more efficient than the standard practice of using gradient descent. The method is called Orthogonal Finetuning, or OFT. OFT is based on the idea of orthogonalizing the weights of a neural network. Orthogonalizing the weights means that the weights are transformed into a new set of weights that are orthogonal to the original weights. Orthogonalizing the weight matrix is a computationally expensive process, but it is necessary for OFT to work. The paper presents a method for computing the orthogonal matrix that is required for OFT. The method is based on the Gram-Schmidt algorithm, which is a standard method for orthogonalizing a set or vectors. The Gram-Schmidt algorithm is used to compute the orthogonalization matrix, which is then used to transform the weight matrix. The paper also presents empirical results that show the effectiveness of OFT. The results show that OFT can achieve parameter-efficiency similar to the best existing methods. The paper concludes with an analysis of the advantages and limitations OFT. The paper concludes with the observation that OFT is a promising method for improving the efficiency of neural network training.

The paper "Orthogonal Finetuning: A New Approach to Parameter-Efficient Neural Network Training" presents a new approach to training neural networks that is based on the idea that the weights of a neural net can be transformed into a new set that is orthogonal to the original weights, which is known as orthogonal finetuning. The paper presents a new method for orthogonal finetuning, which is called orthogonal finetuning. Orthogonal finetuning is based on the Gram–Schmidt algorithm, which is used to transform a set of vectors into an orthogonal set. The Gram–Schmidt algorithm is a standard method for transforming a set of vectors into a new set that are orthogonal to the old set. The paper also presents an empirical study that shows that orthogonal finetuning can achieve parameter-efficiency on par with the best existing methods. In addition, the paper presents a theoretical analysis that shows that orthogonal finituning can achieve parameter-efficiencies that are comparable to those achieved by the best existing methods. Finally, the paper presents a discussion of the advantages of orthogonal finetuning and its limitations. The paper concludes with recommendations for future research.

The paper "Orthogonally Finetuned Deep Neural Networks" presents a method for finetuning deep neural networks that is based solely on the Gram-Schmid algorithm. The method is called Gram-Schmidt Orthogonal Finetuning or GSOFT. The method is based solely on the idea of transforming the weights of a neural networks into an orthogonal set. This transformation is done using the Gram-Schmidt method, which is a standard technique for transforming a set of numbers into an orthogonal set. GSOFT is a simple and efficient method for finetuning neural networks. The method is based only on the Gram-Schmitt algorithm, which is a straightforward and effective way to transform the weights of a neuralnetwork into an orthogonal set. In addition, the method is easy to implement and does not require any additional computational resources. The paper presents empirical evidence that GSOFT can achieve parameter-efficiencies comparable to those achieved by other methods. The paper also presents theoretical analysis that shows that GSOFT can be used to achieve parameter-efficiencies that match those achieved by the best available methods. Finally, the GSOFT method is compared to other methods in terms of their ability to achieve parameter-efficiencies. The paper concludes with suggestions for future research.

The papers "Orthogonal Finetuned Deep Neural Network Training" and "Orthogonal Finetune Deep Neural Network Training" present two different approaches to finetuning deep neural network models. The first approach, called Orthogonal Finetuned Deep Network Training, uses the Gram-Schmidt Orthogonality Finetuning (GSOFT) method to finetune deep neural network models. This method is based on the
