--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is based on the butterfly structure, a widely used data-parallelism pattern in many deep learning systems. BOFT recursively applies a butterfly factorization to construct a parameter matrix with a trellis-like sparsity pattern. To prevent the trellis from collapsing to a block-diagonal matrix, BOFT introduces a skew factor that rotates the trellis by 45 degrees. BOFT also proposes a simple yet effective regularization to prevent the orthogonal matrix from converging to a identity matrix. The paper evaluates BOFT on adaptation to distribution shifts, few-shot learning, and controlling text-to-image diffusion models. BOFT achieves stronger performance than OFT and the block-diagonal variant, as well as other state-of-the-art methods such as Re-parameterizable Finetuning (RFT) and LoRA. In the text-to-image setting, BOFT is the first method that can recover the full potential of T2I models based on Stable Diffusion (SD) after finetuning. In addition to the quantitative evaluation, the paper also provides a qualitative comparison of finetuned T2I models, showing that BOFT produces the most realistic images among all methods. The code and models will be released soon.

Butterfly Parameterization
Butterfly parameterization (BPT) is a novel parameterization for orthogonal matrices that enables high parameter-efficiency. It is based on the butterfly data-parallelism pattern, which is widely used in many deep learning systems (e.g., NVIDIA A100 GPUs) to increase the memory bandwidth (Chen et al., 2020). Figure 1 illustrates the butterfly parameterization. An n × n orthogonal matrix is composed of b blocks, each of size m × m, where n = bm. The i-th row of the matrix is generated by concatenating the blocks corresponding to the indices in the i-th butterfly branch. For example, the first row is generated by concatenating blocks at indices (1,1), (1,2), (1,3), ..., (1,bm-1). The parameterization is recursive. We start with a 1 × 1 identity matrix, and then generate larger matrices by stacking multiple small matrices whose sizes are powers of 2. For a matrix of size 2 r × 2 r , we first create b/2 blocks of size 2 r−1 × 2 r−1 , and then generate the matrix by concatenating the blocks according to the butterfly pattern. To generate a random orthogonal matrix, we can further multiply a random orthogonal skew matrix (defined later) to the matrix generated by the forward butterfly parameterization.

Orthogonal Butterfly
The orthogonal butterfly (BOFT) is the combination of the butterfly parameterization and an orthogonal transformation. Given a butterfly matrix generated by the forward parameterization, BOFT multiplies a skew matrix to each small matrix and then concatenates these skewed matrices to obtain an orthogonal matrix. Formally, given a butterfly matrix M ∈ R bm×bm with the sparsity pattern of a butterfly graph, BOFT first generates b skew matrices Skw 1 , Skw 2 , ..., Skw b ∈ R m×m . It then creates an orthogonal matrix of size n × n by concatenating b blocks, each of which is Skw i multiplied to M. For randomization, we generate Skw i as Skw i = Rz i z T i , where R is a random orthogonal matrix and z i is a random vector of length m.

Skew Matrix Regularization
To prevent the orthogonal matrix from collapsing to an identity matrix, BOFT proposes to add a small bias to the skew matrix. Specifically, we generate the skew matrix as Skw i = ηI + Rz i z T where η is a small scalar.

Orthogonal Butterfly with Block-diagonal Skew Matrices (BOFT-BD)
BOFT-BD is a block-diagonal variant of BOFT. It first generates b/d block-diagonal skew matrices Skw (d) i ∈ R d×d for each i, and then stacks these skew matrices to form a skew matrix of size bd × bd. BOFT-BD then multiplies this large skew matrix to the butterfly matrix M to obtain an orthogonal matrix.

Related Work
Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) has gained increasing attention due to the rapid growth of model sizes (Hulora (Guo et al., 2022); OneShot (Li et al., 2021); RFT (Laion et al., 2023)) and dataset sizes (Out-of-Distribution Finetuning (OODT) (Mou et al., 202

Standard OFT
Block-diagonal OFT BOFT BOFT-BD Figure 2: An illustration of OFT, BOFT, and BOFT-BD. We consider a setting with b = 8 and d = 64. OFT and BOFT-BD have the same number of trainable parameters as the pretrained model (576 million), while BOFT has the least number
