--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning method that can be applied to any pretrained text-to-image diffusion model. It finetunes the pretrained model by learning layer-shared orthogonal transformations. OFT is provably stable and does not change the pairwise neuron angles, preserving the pairwise neuron dot products and thus the pairwise neuron similarities. OFT is also provably able to finetune all the neurons in a layer, since it uses the entire layer as the invariance constraint. OFT is related to angular margin training, but while angular margin training is unstable and has to use a strong regularizer to be practical, OFT is provably convergent and stable. OFT is also related to learning layer-shared orthogonal transformations for linear neural networks, but while the prior work on learning layer-shared orthogonal transformations focuses on the case where the number of neurons is much smaller than the number of training samples, OFT is designed for the setting where the number of neurons greatly exceeds the number of training data, which is the case for diffusion models. OFT is also closely related to LoRA, but while LoRA only changes the activations of neurons, OFT changes both the activations and the weights of neurons. The paper evaluates OFT on BigBird, Stable Diffusion v1.5, and DALL-E2. For BigBird and Stable Diffusion, OFT is able to finetune the pretrained models to a similar level of quality as the original papers that trained the models from scratch. For DALL-E2, OFT is able<|endoftext|>
