--- PROMPT ---
What potential impact could DPO's efficiency and robustness have on future research in large language model training?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
What potential impact could DPO's efficiency and robustness have on future research in large language model training?<|EOT|> of language models? We believe that the change in scale of language model training will open up new avenues of research. For example, we can now train models of unprecedented size, which raises the question of how well they generalize to data outside of the training set. How do language models perform when presented with a question they have never seen before? When presented with a text snippet from a different time of day? From a different language? When we can train language models of such enormous scale, we can also ask the converse question: how much of the model can we understand from a few input-output pairs? Can we use a small number of interactions to predict, with high confidence, answers to questions that the model has never seen before? These are just some of the questions that we can now explore as language model training becomes more widespread.
Another exciting direction of future research is to combine large language models with other AI capabilities. For example, we might combine LLMs with reasoning or summarization abilities, or explore the interaction of LLMs with tasks such as dialogue or machine vision. With the scale and capacity of language models becoming increasingly accessible, there are many exciting directions in which to apply their power.
Appendix: Proofs of Theorems.

A.1 Proof of Theorem 1
We will use the following simple fact about expectation of a product of random variables: We can rewrite the right-hand side as follows: where the second equality uses the independence of the draws. The last line uses the fact that the distribution of the first L terms of a random sample from a distribution with Lth moment is a random sample from a normal distribution with mean zero and Lth moment. The sum over i of the last line is the Lth moment of the distribution of the first i terms of a random sample, from which we can conclude that the expectation of the left-hand side is equal to the Lth moment of P (X 1 = x 1 , . . . , X L = x L ). This completes the proof of the theorem.
We can give a similar proof to Theorem 2 using the law of total expectation. We have: where the second equality follows from the fact that the distribution P (X 1 , . . .

A.2 Proof of Theorem 3
We will use the fact that for any function f : R → R, we have: where the second line uses the fact that E[f (X)] = f (E[X]) and the third line uses the fact that for any two random variables X and Y , we have E[f (X) g(Y )] = f (E[X]). We can rewrite the right hand side of the equation as: where the second equality is due to the fact that the distributionP of the first L terms in a random sample from a uniform distribution on the interval [a, b] is a random sample from the distribution with density f (x) = 1 b a , x ∈ [a, b]. The sum over i in the last line is the second moment of the distribution of X 1 , from which we can conclude the theorem.
We can prove a similar result for the variance using the law of total variance: where the second equality holds because the distribution of the first l terms in a random sample is a random sample from an exponential distribution with rate l, and the third equality uses the fact that the variance of a random variable is equal to the expectation of its squared deviation from the mean, which is equal to its second moment. We can rewrite the right side of the equation as:

A.3 Proof of Theorem 4
We will use the law of total probability: where the second equality comes from the fact that the conditional distribution of the first L − 1 terms in a random sample given X = x is the same as the conditional distribution of the same set of terms given the full sample X = x, and the third equality follows from the fact thaṫ P (X 1 ∈ x, . . . , X l ∈ x) = P (X 1 ≤ x, . . . ,

A.4 Proof of Theorem 5
We will use the central limit theorem. We have: where we used the fact that the distribution with mean zero and variance L is a normal distribution with mean 0 and variance L in the second line, and the fact that the distribution is approximately normal in the Lth moment in the last line. The sum over i in this equation is the Lth moment, from which we can infer that the expectation of the right-hand side is approximately equal to L/2. The variance is equal to L/12, so we can conclude that the distribution of the scaled variables is approximately normal with mean 0 and L/12th moment. This completes the proof of Theorem 5.

A.5 Proof of Theorem 6
We will use the moment method. We have: where in the second line we used the fact that for any random variable Y and any real number k
