--- PROMPT ---
What theoretical challenges arise when attempting to learn from human preferences without direct access to the underlying reward model, and how might this affect model training?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
What theoretical challenges arise when attempting to learn from human preferences without direct access to the underlying reward model, and how might this affect model training?<|EOT|> the reward model is unknown or implicit, reinforcement learning algorithms such as PPO can be used to optimize the policy directly. However, the policy learned is unlikely to correspond exactly to the human preference policy, as it will have to account for more general long-term implications than those explicitly present in the training data. As such, the policy obtained through PPO may be over-constrained and more difficult to train on datasets containing diverse preference profiles. An alternative approach is to use a reward model that is explicit but does not match the human preference data perfectly. This is often feasible in practice-there are potentially many models of human reward that lead to the same average behavioristic response curves. Once a reward model is assumed, it is a simple matter of reinforcement learning to compute the policy that produces the desired long-term behavior. However, the correctness of using a specified reward model is not immediately obvious. Too low a model and the policy will be difficult to train; too high a model will degenerate into a reward lottery where the policy spends most of its time in states with high reward, but is not optimizing for the human preference function. Further investigation of what policies human preferences select under various assumed reward functions is needed to inform the generalization properties of reward learning.
How well does applying PPO-based reward learning to human preference data generalize to preferences of novel foods? One way to evaluate generalization ability is to evaluate how the reward policy performs on a test set of preferences that was not used in training. However, in the case of the PPO-based reward learning algorithm, there is no test set of preferences; the policy learned is the best possible policy given the training preferences. Therefore, to evaluate how well the reward learning algorithm performs, we can consider the highest proportion of samples that the reward policy does not block compared to a control policy that always displays the highest preference for a given food. We perform this evaluation on three data sets-the Peking duck dataset, the French fries dataset, and a set of 14 chocolate preferences that were not used to train the reward model. Underlying all of these datasets is a set of 15 foods whose relative preferences are well-established. We compare the reward learning policy to a control policy that maximizes the stability of food consumption pairs under preference blocking. Specifically, we consider a policy that repeatedly pairs the most preferred food with the most least worst food in a pair (termed the "stability max" policy); we call this the blocking max policy. We compute the proportion of samples that the blocking max policy would not block, defined as the proportion of samples that would reject the blocking max with 95% confidence. The results are quite striking for the Peking duck and French fries datasets, showing that reward learning outperforms random preference blocking by significant margins (up to 16% of samples blocked by the blocking max policy versus 61% blocked by random preference blocking).

RELATED WORK
There has been a large body of work on automatic food selection, which typically involves automatically selecting a food pair from a set of available options for a given person. This area of research has been driven by applications such as home delivery, assisted living, and health care. In the home delivery context, a common scenario is where a person with a disability orders their food from a menu online and has it delivered to their home. Automatic food selection algorithms can help people with disabilities make nutritious food choices, reduce food waste, and save time. There are many approaches to automatic food selection, ranging from rule-based heuristics [1] to neural networks [2] to reinforcement learning [3] to probabilistic models [4]. Most of these algorithms operate under the assumption that a reward model of some sort exists for the food preference data available to humans. These reward models can be categorized into two groups: intrinsic reward models and learned reward models. Intrinsic reward models posit that there is a fundamental preference for freshness, flavor, or nutritional value in a food item, and that learned algorithms can detect and quantify this innate reward. Examples of intrinsic reward models include the hedonic qualities of a food [5] or the food's nutritional content [6]. On the other end of the spectrum are learned reward models, which attempt to fit a mathematical function to the human preference data available to learn the human concept of "food quality". Learned reward models have been fit to human preference data by linear regression [7], support vector machines [8], principal component analysis [9], and neural networks [10]. An alternative approach is to make an assumption about the underlying reward function and then train a neural network to fit the resulting discrete reward function. An example of this approach is the PPO-based reward model described in Section 4.1. Another related line of work attempts to automatically generate recipes from a set of ingredients. This area of research typically assumes a learned reward model for the taste or nutritional synergy of combinations of ingredients [11,12], and then trains a policy to maximize this reward. While similar in spirit to our work, the recipes generated by these algorithms are predetermined, rather than being chosen by a person
