--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences, Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), instead of the usual RLHF pipeline like PPO. Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences, Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), instead of the usual RLHF pipeline like PPO. Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is a simple algorithm that can be used to train language models to satisfy human preferences. It is based on the observation that the probability assigned by a language model to a human-preferred sentence is a reward function for an MDP that can be optimized with reinforcement learning algorithms. DPO is a simple algorithm that uses a single loss function to optimize the language model parameters directly, without explicit reward modeling or reinforcement learning. DPO is conceptually simple, computationally efficient, and easy to implement. It is also empirically effective, achieving state-of-the-art performance on the large-scale FLAN benchmark and significantly outperforming existing algorithms on the smaller-scale Vicuna benchmark. In addition, DPO is more sample-efficient than existing algorithms, requiring fewer human preferences to achieve a given level of performance. DPO is a general-purpose algorithm that can be used with any differentiable language model and any source of human preferences. In experiments, we use it to train GPT-2 to satisfy preferences specified using natural language prompts, and to train LLMs of various sizes on the FLAN benchmark, achieving new state-of-the-art performance. We also use DPO to train a version of ChatGPT to satisfy preferences about response length, achieving preference accuracy comparable to the original version of ChatGPT but with a much smaller LLM (6B parameters). In addition to its empirical successes, DPO has two important theoretical contributions. First, we prove that, under certain assumptions, if a language model assigns zero probability to a dispreferred sentence and positive probability to a preferred sentence, then it must be possible to use the language model to solve the corresponding MDP. This provides a partial explanation for why DPO is able to train language models to satisfaction human preferences, even though the probability assigned by a neural language model to a sentence is not a very good reward function. Second, we prove that, if a language model satisfies a set of preferences with high probability, then it must have a high mutual information with an optimal reward function for the corresponding MDP. Informally, this means that satisfaction of preferences is a necessary condition for a language model to be useful for RLHF. In addition to the main paper, we have included several supplementary documents. First, we include a technical report with additional experimental details and additional results. Second, we include the code for the DPO algorithm, which is released under the MIT license and is available at https://github.com/openai/dpo. Third, we include a dataset of human preferences for response length collected using the method of the main paper, which is released under a CC BY 4.0 license and is available at http://prefference.ai/data/.

Introduction
Recent large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance on a wide range of natural language tasks (Brown et al., 2020;Chen et al., 2021;Bai et al., 2022;Touvron et al., 2023). However, these models are trained on massive datasets that include harmful content, and they reflect and amplify the biases in these datasets (Bender et al., 2018;Bender and Vlachos, 2020;Nicol et al., 2024). One approach to mitigating these problems is to use reinforcement learning to train LLMs to satisfy human preferences for safe and non-discriminatory language (Christiano et al., 2017;ouyang et al., 2019;Stiennon et al., 2025;Bai et al, 2022). This technique, known as reward learning from human feedback (RLHF), has shown promise in reducing bias and toxicity in LLMs (Stiennon et al, 2025;Bender and Vlahos, 2020), but existing algorithms for RLHF are computationally expensive and difficult to implement, and they require significant engineering effort to work with specific models and preference datasets.
In this paper, we introduce a new algorithm for RLHF, called Direct Preference Optimization (D PO). D PO is simple, efficient, and easy to use. It is conceptually simple, in that it is based on a single insight: the probability assigned by a LLM to a preferred sentence is a reward function that can be optimized with standard reinforcement learning algorithms. It is computationally efficient, in that it can be optimized with online methods that require a single pass through the data for each update, and it is easy to use, in that it can work with any differentiable LLM and any source of human preference data. In addition to its empirical effectiveness, D PO has two important theoretical contributions.
First, we prove that, assuming certain conditions hold, if a LLM assigns zero probability to a sentence that is dispreferred and positive probability to a sentence that preferred, then it must be able to solve the corresponding M DP. This provides a partial theoretical explanation for why D PO is able to train LLMs with high preference accuracy, even though the probability that a LLM assigns to a sentence is not necessarily
