--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's weight matrix to perform orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is a generalization of OFT that can be applied to any finetuning method that can be written as a matrix-vector product. In this paper, we present a new BOFT variant called BOFT-2, which is a generalization of BOFT that uses a factorization with a block-diagonal structure. We show that BOFT-2 is more efficient than BOFT in terms of both training time and memory usage. We also show that BOFT-1 and BOFT-2 are equivalent in terms of performance. We conduct extensive experiments on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, ImageNet, and ImageNet-1K, showing that BOFT-2 outperforms BOFT and OFT in terms of accuracy and speed. We also compare BOFT-2 with other finetuning methods, including OFT, OFT-2, and the block-diagonal OFT variant OFT-2. Our results show that BOFT-3, a variant of BOFT-2 that uses a block-diagonal structure with a larger block size, is even more efficient than BOFT-2. We also conduct experiments on a large-scale finetuning dataset, the ImageNet-1K Large, and show that BOFT-4, a variant of BOFF-2 that uses a larger block size, outperforms BOFT-2 and OFT-2 on the ImageNet-1k Large dataset. Finally, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of BOFT-2 and BOFT-3, showing that they are both effective and efficient. We believe that BOFT-2 and -3 are promising methods for finetuning large models, and we hope that they will be widely adopted in the future.

Introduction
Finetuning is a popular method for improving the performance of large pretrained models. It involves fine-tuning a pretrained model on a new dataset, which can improve the model's performance on downstream tasks. Finetuning methods can be broadly classified into two categories: finetuning methods that use a fixed weight matrix and finetuning methods that adapt the weight matrix during training. The former category includes methods such as Orthogonal Finetuning, which uses a fixed orthogonal matrix to perform finetuning. The latter category includes methods such as BOFT, which uses a factorization of a weight matrix to perform finetunning.
In this paper, we focus on finetuning methods that are based on a factorization of the weight matrix. We believe that factorization-based finetuning methods are more efficient than methods that use a fixed matrix. This is because the weight matrix can be factorized into a product of smaller matrices, which can be optimized more efficiently than a single large matrix. Moreover, factorization-based finetunning methods can be applied to any method that can be written in the form of a matrix-vector product. This includes methods such as OFT, OFT 2 , and OFT-2, which are commonly used in the finetuning community. In this paper, our goal is to develop a new finetuning method that is more efficient than OFT and OFT-2. We call this method BOFT, which stands for BOthogonal Finetuning. BOFT uses a factorization of an input weight matrix to perform finetting. We believe that BOFF-2, a variant of BOF-2, is a promising method for finetuning large pretrained models. We also believe that BOFT-3 and BOFT-4, which are variants of BOFT-2, are promising methods for finetting large pretrained models. We will discuss these variants in Section 3.
We believe that BOFT-1, a variant of BOFO-2, is a good baseline for finetuning large pre-trained models. We will discuss this variant in Section 4. We also believe that the block-diagonal OFFT-2 variant OFFT-2 is a good baseline for large finetuning. We will discuss this method in Section 5. We believe that BOF-3 and BOF-4 are promising methods for fineting large pretrained models. We discuss these methods in Section 6. We also conduct a comprehensive analysis of the performance of BOFT-2. In particular, we analyze the performance of BOFT, BOFT-2, BOFT-3, and BOFT-4 on the ImageNet-100 and ImageNet-1k datasets. We believe that BOFO-2 and BOFT are promising methods for finiting large pretrained models. We hope that they will be adopted in the future.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the problem of finetuning large pretrained networks. In Section 3, we introduce the BOFT method. In Section 4, we introduce the BOF-1 method. In Section 5, we introduce the OFFT
