--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's parameters to improve the model's performance. BOFT is a generalization of OFT, which uses a block-diagonal matrix to improve the model's parameter efficiency. In this paper, we present a new BOFT method that uses a factorized matrix to improve the model. We show that our method can be used to improve the performance of any finetuning method, including OFT, BOFT, and block-diagonal methods. We also show that our method can improve the performance of the original BOFT method. We evaluate our method on several datasets and show that it can improve the performance of BOFT and OFT. We also show that it can improve performance over the original BOFT method.

Introduction
Finetuning is a popular method for improving the performance of large neural networks. It involves fine-tuning a pretrained model on a new dataset, which can improve the performance of a model on the new dataset. Finetuning methods have been widely used in various fields, such as computer vision, natural language processing, and speech recognition. However, finetuning methods are not always effective, and they often require a large amount of data to improve the performance of the model. This is because finetuning methods often use a small number of parameters to improve the performance of a large model. Therefore, finetuning methods often require a large amount data to improve the performance.
One way to improve the performance of finetuning methods is to use a larger number of parameters to improve their performance. However, this can lead to a large model, which can be difficult to train. Another way to improve the performance is to use a smaller number of parameters to improve a large model. This can be done by using a finetuning method with a smaller number of parameters. However, this can be difficult to implement, and it can be difficult to find a finetuning method for a specific model.
A common way to improve the performance finetuning methods is by using a block-diagonal matrix. This is because a block-diagonal matrix can be used to improve parameter efficiency. A block-diagonal matrix is a matrix that has blocks of the same size along the diagonal. This can be useful for finetuning methods because it can reduce the number of parameters used to improve the performance. However, block-diagonal matrices can be difficult to implement in practice, and they can be difficult to find for a specific model.
One way to improve parameter efficiency is to use a factorized matrix. A factorized matrix is a matrix that can be broken down into smaller matrices. This can be useful because it can reduce the size of the matrix, which can be easier to implement in practice. However, factorized matrices can be difficult to find, and they can be hard to implement for a specific model.
In this paper, we present an efficient method for finetuning methods that uses a factorized parameter matrix. We call this method Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal (PEO) Finetuning. PEO Finetuning is a generalization of the block-diagonal method, which uses a block diagonal matrix to improve parameter efficiency. PEO Finetunning is a finetuning technique that uses a factorized parametrized matrix to improve the performance of large models. We show that PEO Finetuning can be used to improve performance over OFT and BOFT, two popular finetuning methods. We also show how PEO Finetuning improves performance over the original BOOF method. We evaluate PEO Finetuning on several datasets and show its effectiveness. We also show that PEO Fineting can improve performance over the block-diagonal method. We believe that PEO Finetunning can be used to improve finetuning methods in general, and we hope that it will be useful for researchers and practitioners who are interested in finetuning methods.

Related Work
Finetuning methods have been used to improve the performance on various datasets. Some of the most popular finetuning methods include BOFT, OFT, and block-diagonal finetuning. BOFT is a finetuning approach that uses a block-diagonal parameter matrix to improve the performance. OFT is a finetuning algorithm that uses a block-diagonalmatrix to improve the performance. Block-diagonal finetuning is a finetuning that uses a block-diagonal matrix to improve the performance.
There are many different finetuning methods, and they can be used to improve different aspects of the performance. For example, BOFT can be used to improve accuracy, while OFT can be used to improve generalization. Block-diagonal finetting can be used to improve both accuracy and generalization. There are many different finetunings methods, and they can all be used to improve different performance metrics. For example, BOOF can be used to improve classification accuracy, while BOFT can be used for object detection. Block-diagonal fineting can be used to improve all performance metrics.
There are many different
