\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits"}

### How does reducing activations from FP32/FP32 (intermediate) -> FP32 output affect stability during forward pass despite being quantized?
Question:
The paper states BitNet b1.58 uses '8-bit activations'. Usually in Transformer architectures like LLaMA mentioned here (RMSNorm + SwiGLU), there are non-linearities where large gradients can accumulate if intermediate values aren't carefully handled. If activations are clipped or quantized early (as implied by saving them as integers before storage/transmission), does this constrain the dynamic range entering into SwiGLU gates or Rotary Embeddings? The Section on Energy savings mentions INT8 additions dominate costs on A8N chips compared to FP16 mults/adds. Are there concerns about saturation errors in low-precision forward passes despite using dynamic scaling per token as mentioned in 'Quantization Function', especially given that they start scaling from scratch training rather than post-training pruning?
Answer:
The stability of BitNet b1.58 during the forward pass, despite quantizing activations from FP32/FP32 (intermediate calculations) to 8-bit integers, stems primarily from the specific design of its "Quantization Function" and its training methodology, rather than relying on aggressive clipping or zero-point shifts.

Unlike standard post-training quantization where values are globally scaled to a fixed small integer range (like $[0, 127]$), BitNet b1.58 implements a dynamic token-wise scaling strategy. Specifically, the paper notes that activations are "scaled to $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ per token," which effectively creates a local dynamic range centered around zero for each position in the sequence without introducing offset biases. This approach is crucial because it allows the 8-bit integers to maintain a symmetric distribution capable of representing both positive and negative values, mitigating the risk of pure positive clipping that could force negative gates in non-linearities like SwiGLU into saturation. Furthermore, because the model is trained from scratch with these specific quantization constraints, the network weights have been adapted to expect this statistical distribution during training; they do not encounter a sudden shift in activation statistics as seen in post-training scenarios where the model was originally optimized for high-precision floating point operations.

Regarding concerns about gradients and non-linearities within RMSNorm and SwiGLU layers, the reduction from FP32 intermediate precision to 8-bit output does not inherently cause instability because the intermediate accumulations can still be handled with sufficient precision before the final quantized output is stored or transmitted to memory. The paper highlights that on chips like the A8N mentioned in your inquiry, INT8 additions dominate costs over FP16 multiplications only after this final quantization step; however, the forward pass involving matrix multiplications and element-wise operations typically retains higher precision internally on modern hardware before being cast to INT8 for storage or subsequent sparse/ternary operations. The "Energy savings" section emphasizes that INT8 arithmetic replaces FP16 mult/adds only for the weight-application step (the $Wx$ operation in linear layers), which suggests that heavy accumulation steps might leverage native hardware capabilities (often FP16) prior to the final 8-bit reduction.

Ultimately, the loss of dynamic range is managed by ensuring that for any given token batch, the maximum activation magnitude does not exceed $Q_b$. While this truncates extreme outliers compared to full FP32 range, it prevents overflow errors by definition and allows the model to operate safely within a bounded integer domain. The combination of per-token dynamic scaling and training-the-model-in-twosystem ensures that these quantized activations entering SwiGLU gates or Rotary Embeddings remain within a predictable functional range where gradients can still flow effectively through subsequent layers without hitting hard saturation walls.