--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'm not sure if this is the best way to do it, but I'll try to be as clear as possible.

First, let's talk about the problem. The problem is that we want to finetune a pretrained language model (LM) on a new task, but we don't have access to the full model. We only have a small model that is finetuned on a small dataset. This is called finetuning on a small dataset. The problem is that the small model is not very accurate, so we need to make it more accurate by finetuning it on a larger dataset. This is called fine-tuning on a large dataset.

Now, let's talk about why we can't just use the full pretrained model. The full pretrained model is too big and too slow. It takes too long to train and run. So, we need to find a way to make the full pretrained model smaller and faster. That's where quantization comes in.

Quantization is a way to reduce the size of a model without losing too much accuracy. It's like taking a picture of a painting instead of printing it out. The picture is smaller, but it still looks good. In the case of quantization, we are reducing the size of the weights in the model without losing too much performance.

So, how does quantization work? Well, it's actually quite simple. We take the weights of the full pretrained model and we convert them into a smaller set of numbers. These numbers are called quantization coefficients. The smaller the coefficients, the smaller the model. The larger the coefficients, the larger the model.

The question is, how do we choose the right coefficients? That's where the paper "QLoRa: Efficient Finetuning o Quantized LLMs" comes in. The authors of the paper propose a method for choosing the right coefficients. They call it the Coefficient of Improvement (COI).

The COI is a number between 0 and 1. It tells us how much better the quantized model is compared to the full pretrained model. A COI of 0 means that the quantized model is exactly as good as the full pretrained model. And a COI of 1 means that the quantized is better than the full pretrained model.

To calculate the COI, the authors use a formula that involves the training loss of the full pretrained model, the training loss of the quantized model, and the training loss of the finetuned model. They also use some other information, like the number of parameters in the full pretrained model and the number of parameters in each layer of the quantized model.

The formula looks like this:

COI = (Training Loss of Full Pretrained Model - Training Loss of Quantized Model) / (Training Loss of Finetuned Model - Training Loss of Full Pretrained)

The training loss of the full pre-trained model is the difference between the loss of the full pretrained and the loss of the finetune model. The training loss of the quantised model is the difference between its loss and the loss of the full pre-training model. And the training loss of the fine-tuned model is the difference between it and the loss of the fully trained model.

The formula gives us a number between 0 (which means the quantized model is worse than the full pretrained model) and 1 (which means the quantised model is better than the full pre-trained model). But how do we know which number is better?

That's where the authors of the paper come in. They propose a method for choosing a COI that is close to 1. They call this method the Coefficient of Improvement with a Bias (COIb). The COIb is a number between 1 and 0. It tells us how close the COI is to 1. A COIb of 0 means that we should use the full pretrained model, because it is better than the quantized model. A COIb close to 1 means that we should use a quantized model, because it is close to the full pretrained model.

The COIb is calculated using a formula that involves the number of parameters in both the full pretrained model and each layer of the quantised model. The formula looks like this:

Coefficient of Improvement with a bias (COIb) = (Number of Parameters in Full Pretrained Model - Number of Parameters in Layer 1 of Quantized Model) * (1 - Coefficient of Improvement)

The coefficient of improvement is a number between 2 and 1. It is the difference between the number of parameters in a layer of the quantised and the full pretrained model. If the coefficient of improvement is 1, then the number of parameters in all the layers of the quantised model are the same as the number of parameters in one layer of the full pretrained model. So, the COIb is 1.

If the coefficient of improvement is less than 1, then the quantised model is worse than the fully pretrained
