--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", what is Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", what is Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO)?<|EOT|>

The paper introduces a new method for training language models, called Group Relative Policy Optimization (GROPo). GROPo is a variant of Relative Policy Optimization (RPO) that uses group-level information to improve the performance of individual policies. The key idea behind GROPo is to use a group of policy heads to estimate the relative importance of different tokens in a given context. This relative importance is then used to update the individual policy heads, thereby improving the overall performance of the model.

In particular, GROPo uses a group of policy heads that are trained to estimate the relative importance (or relevance) of different tokens in a context. These heads are trained on a dataset of examples where the relative importance of different words is known. For example, if we have a dataset of 1000 examples where the relative importance (or score) of different words is known, we can train a group of policy heads using this dataset. Each head will be trained to estimate the relative score of different words in a context. Once the heads are trained, we can use them to update the individual policy head scores. This updated set of policy heads will be used to make decisions about which tokens to assign high importance to and which tokens to assign low importance.

The key advantage of GROPo over other methods is that it can use group-level information to improve model performance. This is particularly useful when training large language models, as it can help reduce the number of parameters needed to achieve a certain level of performance. Additionally, GROPo can be implemented efficiently, making it suitable for large-scale deployment.

To summarize, Group Relative Policy Optimization (or GROPo) is a method for training language models that uses group-level information (relative importance) to improve model performance. It is particularly useful when training very large language models, as GROPo can reduce the number of parameters required to achieve a certain level performance.<|endoftext|>
