--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on butterfly structures. The authors demonstrate that BOFT can be used to finetune large vision transformers and language models with a parameter efficiency that is comparable to LoRA, while also achieving better performance than LoRA in certain scenarios. The paper also presents a new finetuning method called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft), which is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning method that is based upon butterfly structures. The authors show that BOft can be used to finitely tune large vision transformers and language model with a parameter efficiency that compares to LoRA, while at the same time achieving better performance than LoRa in certain scenarios. The authors also present a new finetuning approach called Orthogonal Butterfly (Boft), which is a Parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning approach that is based on butterfly structure. The authors demonstrate that Boft can be used to fine-tune large vision transformers and Language models with a parameter efficiency comparable to LoRA, and at the same time achieving superior performance than LoRA in some scenarios. The paper also introduces a new finetuning technique called Orthogonal Butterfly (BofT), which is a parameter efficient orthogonal finetuning approach based on butterfly structures. They show that BofT can be used to fin-tune large vision transformers as well as language models with a parameter-efficiency comparable to LoRA, but with better performance than LoRA under certain circumstances. The paper also introduces the Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFt) finetuning technique, which is a parameter-efficient and orthogonal finetuning approach built on butterfly structures. The paper demonstrates that BOFt can be used to fin-<|endoftext|>
