--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>The Orthogonal Butterfly (BOpt) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that can be viewed as a variant of LoRA. It uses orthogonal transformations to update the weights of a pretrained network. The key idea is to compose many  small orthogonal transformations to form a large one, which is motivated by the butterfly structure (also known as bit reversal) from the fast Fourier transform. The figure below shows an example of a butterfly structure with 4 levels (also called stages). At the bottom stage, there are 2 nodes that correspond to 2 elementary orthogonal transformations. The number of nodes at each level is twice the number at the previous level. So, the second level has 2*2=4 nodes, the third level has 4*2=8 nodes, and the top level has 8*2=16 nodes. For each node at a certain level, it is connected to two nodes at the next level by two different paths, which are marked with the same color. For example, node (7) at the second level is connected to node (18) and (19) at the third level. Each link corresponds to an orthogonal transformation. For example, there is a transformation for link (7)-(18), and another transformation for link (7)–(19). All the orthogonal transformations at the bottom level are used to compose a new orthogonal transformation at the top level. For example, in the figure, there are 2*2= 4 orthogonal transformations at the bottom stage, so we can use them to compose a 7x7 orthogonal transformation at the top stage. To achieve this, we first multiply the weight matrix by all the orthogonal transformations on the path (7)-(18) and then multiply the result by all the orthogonal transformations  on the path (7)–(20). BOpt uses this kind of weight updates during finetuning. Compared to LoRA, BOpt has two additional appealing properties. First, it can achieve a better trade-off between performance and number of new parameters, because it uses more new parameters at the beginning of finetuning. Second, it can be easily implemented with just a simple reparameterization of the weights, without actually applying the orthogonal transformations that need to be multiplied. This is done by generating random orthogonal matrices at the beginning of fineting and then multiplying the weight matrices by a series of reparameterized orthogonal matrices during training.<|endoftext|>
