--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's parameters into orthogonal matrices. This factorization is then used to train the model with a small number of parameters. The BOFT method is based on the idea that the orthogonal matrices can be efficiently represented by a small number of parameters, which is a key advantage over OFT. The paper also presents a new method for training the orthogonal matrices, called BOFT-2, which is based on the idea of using a small number of parameters to represent the orthogonal matrices. The BOFT-2 method is more efficient than BOFT, and it can be used to train models with a smaller number of parameters. The paper also presents an empirical evaluation of BOFT and BOFT-2, and shows that BOFT-2 is more efficient than BO FT. The paper concludes with a discussion of the advantages and limitations of BOFT and BO FT.

The paper "Orthogonal Finetuning: A New Approach to Efficient Parameterization" presents a new approach to parameter-efficient finetuning. The paper introduces the concept of orthogonal finetuning, which is a method for finetuning large models that uses a small number of parameters and achieves parameter efficiency. The paper also presents the concept of orthogonal finitization, which is a method of finetuning that uses a small number or parameters to represent the orthogonal finitization of a model. The paper presents a new method for orthogonal finetuning, called orthogonal finitization, and shows that orthogonal finitization can be used to finetune models with a small number of trainable parameters. The paper concludes with an empirical evaluation of orthogonal finitization and shows that orthogonal fintization is more efficient than standard finetuning.

The paper "Orthogonally Finetuned Deep Neural Networks" presents a new method for finetuning deep neural networks. The paper introduces the idea of finetuning a deep neural network by using an orthogonal matrix to transform the weights of the network. The paper presents a method for training the orthogonal matrix, and shows that the method can be used to finitely train deep neural networks. The method is based on the fact that the orthogonal matrix can be represented by a small number or parameters, which is a major advantage over standard finetuning methods. The paper concludes with empirical evaluations of the method, which show that the method is effective and efficient.

The paper "Ortho-FF: Orthogonal Finetuning with Factorization" presents a new method of finetuning deep neural network models. The paper introduces the method of orthogonal finetuning with factorization, which is a new approach to finetuning deep neural models. The paper presents a novel method for training the orthogonal finetuning matrix, and shows that it can be used to finitize deep neural networks with a small number of training parameters. The paper concludes by presenting an empirical evaluation of the method, which shows that the method is effective.

The paper "Orthofinet: Orthogonal Fineturing with Factorization" presents an orthogonal finetuning method for deep neural networks. The authors introduce the concept of orthogonal finetting, which is a method that uses a small number parameters to finetune deep neural networks. The orthogonal finetuning method is based on the concept of orthogonal finiting, which is a method used to finetune deep networks by using a small number of trainable weights. The paper presents a detailed analysis of the orthogonal finetuning method, and shows that it is more efficient than standard methods for finetuning deep networks. The paper concludes with experimental results that show that the orthogonal finetuning approach is more effective than standard finetuning methods.

The paper "Orthologous Finetuning" presents a new method to finetune deep learning models. The paper introduces a new method for finetting deep learning models, called orthologous finetuning. The method is based upon the idea that the weights of a deep learning model can be represented as a set of orthogonal matrices. The paper presents a theoretical analysis of the method, and shows that the orthologous fineturing method is more efficient than standard approaches for finetuning deep learning models. The experimental results in the paper show that the orthologous method is more effective than standard methods for finetting deep learning networks.

The paper "Orthotuning: A New Approach for Efficient Parameterization" presents an orthogonal parameterization method for finetuning neural networks. The paper presents a theory of orthogonal parameterization, and shows that it leads to a more efficient parameterization than standard parameterization. The paper presents an empirical evaluation of the orthogonal parameterization method, and shows that orthogonal parameterization is more efficient than conventional parameterization. The paper concludes with recommendations for future research.

The paper "Orthotropic Finetuning" presents an orthogonal finetting method for finetuning convolutional neural networks. The paper proposes a new method for fineting convolutional neural networks, called orthotropic finetuning. The orthotropic finetuning method is a new approach to parameterizing
