--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a block-diagonal finetuning method that uses a factorization of the weight matrix to reduce the number of parameters. The BOFT method is based on the idea of using a block-diagonal matrix to approximate the weight matrix. This method is more efficient than OFT, which is a block-diagonal approach. The BOFT method can be used to train a model with fewer parameters than the original model. The BOFT method has been shown to be effective in improving the performance of large models. The BOFT method was introduced in 2019 by Li et al. (2019). The BOFT method is a block-diagonal method that uses a factorized weight matrix to reduce the parameter count. The BOFT method uses a factorization of a weight matrix to reduce the total number of parameters. The method is based on the concept of block-diagonal matrices. The BOFT method reduces the number of parameters by using a factorization of the matrix. The BOFT method improves the performance of large models by reducing the number of parameters. This method is more effective than OFT, which uses a block-diagonal approach to reduce the number of weights. The BOFT method provides a more efficient way to train large models. The BOFF method is a block-diagonal finetuning method that reduces the number of parameters. It is based on the idea that a block-diagonal matrix can be used to approximate the weight matrix.

The BOFT method is a method for training large models with fewer parameters. It is based upon the idea that a block diagonal matrix can be used to represent the weight matrix. The BOFT algorithm is a block-diagonal algorithm that uses a factorization to reduce the number of trainable parameters. The BOFT algorithm uses a factorization of an orthogonal matrix to reduce the number parameters. The BOFT approach is a block-diagonal technique that uses a factorization for parameter reduction. The BOFT algorithm reduces the number of parameters in the model by using a factorization. The BOFT algorithm can be used to train large models with fewer parameters.

The BOFT method can be applied to any type of model, including neural networks, recurrent neural networks, and convolutional neural networks. The BOFT method works well for both convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks. The BOFF method can be used to improve the performance of large models.

The BOFT method has been used to train large models. It has been shown to be more effective than other methods. The BOFT method increases the accuracy of large models. The method is more efficient than other methods. The method is more effective than other methods.

The BOFT method improves the accuracy of large models by reducing their number of parameters. The algorithm is more efficient than other algorithms. The method is more accurate than other methods. The algorithm is more effective than other algorithms. The algorithm is more accurate than other algorithms. The BOFT method makes it possible to train large models with less computational resources. The BOFT method allows for faster training of large models. The algorithm is more computationally efficient than other methods. It is more accurate than other approaches. The BOFT method enables the training of large models with fewer parameters than other methods. The approach is more efficient than other approaches. The method is more computationally efficient. The method is more reliable than other approaches. The algorithm is more reliable than other methods. The technique is more reliable than other techniques. The method is more stable than other approaches. The technique is more stable than other techniques. The BOFT method helps to reduce the number of training parameters in large models. The BOF method is a method for reducing the number of parameters in large models. It is based on a factorization of the weights. The BOF method can be used to reduce the number of neurons in a neural network. The BOF method reduces the number of neurons in the neural network. The BOFT method decreases the number of neurons in neural networks. The BOF method decreases the number of parameters in neural networks. The method is more robust than other methods. The methods are more robust than other methods.

The method is more robust than the other methods. The method has been shown to improve the performance of models. The method is a method for improving the performance of models. It is a method for improving performance. The method is a technique for improving performance. The BOFT method enhances the performance of models. BOFT method is a technique for enhancing the performance of models. This method is a technique for increasing the performance of models.<|endoftext|>
