--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the weight matrix to reduce the number of parameters. The BOFT method is based on the idea of using a block-diagonal matrix to approximate the weight matrix. This method is more efficient than OFT, which uses a block-diagonal matrix. The BOFT method can be used to train large models with fewer parameters. The BOFT algorithm is a generalization of the OFT algorithm, which is a special case of the BOFT algorithm. The BOFT algorithm can be used to train any model, not just large models. The BOFT algorithm has been shown to be more efficient than OFT in terms of parameter efficiency. The BOFT algorithm uses a block-diagonal structure to approximate the weight matrix, which reduces the number of parameters required to train the model. The BOFT algorithm achieves parameter efficiency by reducing the number of parameters required for training the model. The BOFF algorithm is a generalization to OFT, which is a special type of BOFT. The BOFT algorithm was developed to improve the efficiency of training large models. The BOFF algorithm uses a block-diagram structure to approximate the weight matrices, which reduces the number parameters required to train the models. The BOFT method has been shown to be efficient in terms of parameter efficiency.

The BOFT algorithm is a block-diagonal matrix that approximates the weight matrix. The BOFT algorithm reduces the number of parameters needed to train the model. This is achieved by using a block-diagonal structure. The BOFT algorithm improves the efficiency of training large neural networks. The BOFT algorithm provides a way to train large neural networks with fewer parameters. The block-diagonal structure of the BOFT algorithm reduces the amount of computation required to train the model.

The BOFT algorithm uses a factorization of a weight matrix to reduce the amount of computation required for training the model.

The BOFF algorithm is a block-diagram structure that approximates the weight matrices. The BOFF algorithm reduces the number of trainable parameters in the model. The BOF algorithm is a block-diagm

The BOFT algorithm is an efficient method for training large neural networks. It uses a block-diagonal approximation of the weight matrix to minimize the number of parameters required. The BOFT algorithm allows for the training of large neural networks with fewer resources. The BOFT algorithm offers a solution to the problem of training large neural networks with fewer computational resources. The BOFT method uses a block-diagonal approach to approximate the weight matrix in order to reduce the number of trainable parameters. The BOFT approach is a generalization of OFT, which is an efficient method for finetuning large neural networks. The OFT method is a block-diagonal approach that uses a block-diagonal representation of the weight matrix to approximate the weight matrices. The OFT method reduces the number of trainable weights in the model, which improves the efficiency of training. The BOFT method reduces the number of parameters in the model by using a block-diagm<|endoftext|>
