--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a variant of OFT that uses a factorization of the model's parameters into orthogonal matrices. This factorization is achieved by applying a Gram-Schmidt process to the model's parameters. The Gram-Schmidt process is a linear transformation that transforms a set of vectors into an orthogonal set of vectors. The Gram-Schmid process is a linear transformation of a set of vectors into a set of orthogonal vectors. The Gram-Schimidt process is a linear mapping that transforms a set of linearly independent vectors into an orthogonal set. The Gram-Schmitt process is a linear mapping of a set of linearly dependent vectors into an orthogonal set.

The Gram-Schmidt process can be used to transform a set of linearly-independent vectors into an orthogonal set, which is useful for orthogonalizing a set of vectors. The process is based on the following steps: Step 1: Select a set of linearly-independent vectors, v1, v2, ..., vn, from the original set of vectors, v1, ..., vn. Step 2: For each vector, vj, in the set, calculate the inner product between vj and the previous vector, vj-1, and subtract the result from the previous vector, vji. This results in a new vector, vj-2, which is orthogonal to vj. Step 3: Repeat step 2 for each vector in the set until all vectors are orthogonal. The Gram-Schmit process is a linear transformation from a set of linearly-dependent vectors into an orthogonal set using the Gram-Schmidt process. The Gram-Schimmert process is a linear transformation to an orthogonal set of vectors from a set of linear dependent vectors. The Gram-Schemt process is a linear transformation between a set of linearly- dependent vectors and an orthogonal set of vectors.

The Gram-Schmitt process can be used to convert a set of linearly-dependant vectors into an orthogonal set by applying the Gram-Schmidt Process. The Gram-Schimmt process is a linear transformation applied to a set of linearly dependant vectors to produce an orthogonal set of vectors using the Gram-Schmitt Process. The Gram-Schemm process is a linear transformation used to convert a set linearly dependent vectors into a set of linearly independant vectors using the Gram-Schemm Process. The Gram-Schiimmt process is a transformation that converts a set of linearly-depended vectors into an orthogonal set through the Gram-Schmidt procedure. The Gram-Schimsmt process is a linear mapping from a set of linear dependant vectors into an orthogonal vector set using the Gram-Schemt Process. The Gram-Schwimmt process is a mapping from a set of dependent vectors into an orthogonal vector space using the Gram-Schimmert Process. The Gram-Schnimmt process is a set of linearly-determined vectors that are transformed into an orthogonal set using a Gram-Schimmert procedure. The Gram-Schemmt process is a linear map from a set of linear-dependant vectors into an orthogonally-structured set using the Gram-Schwimmt Process. The Gram-Schlimsmt process is a set transformation that converts a set linearly dependent into an orthogonal set using Gram-Schimmert. The Gram-Schlimmt process is a linear transform that converts a set of dependent vectors to an orthogonal set using the Schimmert Process. The Schimmert process is a set of dependent vectors that are transformed into a set of linear independant vectors using the Schimmert procedure. The Schimmert Process is a linear transformation that converts a set dependent vectors into an orthogonal space using the Schimmert Procedure. The Schimmert procedure is a linear transformation that maps a set of linearly determined vectors into an orthogonal set via the Schimmert Process.

The Gram-Schimmert method is a linear transformation that takes a set of linearly depended vectors and transforms them into an orthogonal set using an orthogonal matrix. The Gram-Schimmel method is a linear transformation from the set of linearly dependent to the orthogonal set using the Gram Schimmel Process. The Gram-Scheimmt method is a linear transformation of the set of linearly-dependent to the orthogonal set using a Gram Schimmel Process. Gram-Schimmert is a linear transformation that applies the Gram Schimmel Process to a set of linear dependents to produce an orthogonal set. The Schimmert method is a set transformation that transforms a set linearly dependent to an orthogonal set using a Schimmel Process. The Schimmel method is a linear mapping that converts a set of dependents into an orthogonal set using Schimmel Process. The schimmel method is a linear transform that transforms a set of dependent vectors in an orthogonal set using the schimmel Process. The Schimmelt method is a linear transformation applied on a set of linearly depenedent vectors to produce an orthogonal vector set using Schimmel Process.

The Gram-Schemm method is a linear transformation to a set of linear dependent into an
