--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll try to explain it in a simple way.

What is Finetuning?

Finetuning is a technique to improve the performance of a pretrained model. It is a process of updating the parameters of a pretrained model with a small learning rate. The pretrained model is usually a large model trained on a large dataset. The finetuned model is usually a small model trained on a small dataset. The finetuning process is usually done by adding a small learning rate to the pretrained model and then training the model on the small dataset. The finituned model usually has better performance than the pretrained model.

What is Orthogonal Finetuning?

Orthogonal finetuning is a technique that uses orthogonal matrices to finetune a pretrained model. Orthogonal matrices are matrices that have orthonormal columns. This means that the columns of an orthogonal matrix are perpendicular to each other and have a length of 1. Orthogonal finetuning uses orthogonal matrices to update the parameters of a pretrained neural network. This is done by multiplying the parameters of the pretrained model with an orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix is usually generated by a random process. The orthogonal finetuning process is similar to the finetuning process, except that it uses orthogonal matrices instead of regular matrices.

What is Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal finetuning?

Parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning is a method that uses a small number of parameters to finetune a large pretrained model. This is done by using a small orthogonal matrix to finetune the parameters of the pretrained neural network. The orthogonal matrix is generated by a small number of parameters. This means that the orthogonal matrix has a small number of columns. The orthogonal matrix is used to update the parameters of the pretrained network. The orthogonal matrix can be generated by a small number<|endoftext|>
