--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

What is Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal finetuning?

Parameter-Efficient Orthoganal finetuning is a method to improve the performance of pretrained models. It uses a factorized weight matrix to replace the original weight matrix. The factorized weight matrix is composed of multiple orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal matrices are multiplied to get the final weight matrix. The multiplication of orthogonal matrices is equivalent to the addition of the corresponding parameters. So the number of trainable parameters is reduced.

Why do we need Parameter-Efficient Orthoganl finetuning?

The pretrained models are very powerful. But they are too big to be used in many applications. For example, the pretrained language model GPT-3 has 175B parameters. It's too big to be used on a mobile phone. So we need to finetune the pretrained model to reduce the number of parameters. But the traditional finetuning methods usually don't work well. For example, the original weight matrix is replaced by a small weight matrix. The performance will be degraded.

How does Parameter-Efficient Orthogonl finetuning work?

Parameter-Efficient orthogonal finetuning uses a factorized weight to replace the original weight. The factorized weight is composed of multiple orthogonal weight matrices. The orthogonal weight matrices are multiplied to get a final weight matrix. The final weight matrix is used to replace the original weight.

The orthogonal weight matrices are learned by a simple algorithm. The algorithm is similar to the gradient descent algorithm. But it uses the orthogonal constraint to update the weight matrices. The orthogonal constraint makes the weight matrices orthogonal. The multiplication of orthogonal weight matrices is equivalent to the sum of the corresponding parameters. The number of trainable parameters is greatly reduced.

How to implement Parameter-Efficient Orthganol finetuning?

The code of Parameter-Efficient Orthgonal finetuning is very simple. You just need to replace the original weight with a factorized weight. The factorized is composed of multiple orthogonal weights. The orthogonal weights are learned by a simple gradient descent algorithm. The algorithm uses the orthogonal constraint to limit the weight matrices.

The code is very simple. But it's not easy to make it work. You need to choose a good factorization method. You also need to set a good learning rate for the orthogonal weights. If you want to know more details, please read the paper "Parameter-Eficient Orthogonal Finetunig via Factorization".

What have I learned?

I've learned a lot from the paper "Parameter-Efficent Orthogonal Finetuning". I've learned how to improve the performance of the pretrained models. I've learned how to reduce the number of trainable parameters. I've learned how the orthogonal constraint can improve the performance. I've learned how a simple gradient descent algorithm can learn the orthogonal weight matrices. I've learned how important it is to choose a good factorized method. I've learned how difficult it is to make the code work. I've learned a lot.

I hope you can also learn a lot from the paper. I hope you can use the method to improve the performance and reduce the number of trainable parameter. I hope you can make the code work. Good luck!

If you like this article, please click the heart icon at the top of the article. Thank you!<|endoftext|>
