--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. The paper is about how to control text-to-image diffusion by finetuning the weights of the diffusion network. The paper is written in a very clear and concise way, so I will try to summarize it as well.

The paper introduces a new method called "Orthogonal Finetuning" (OFT). OFT is a way to control the diffusion of the diffusion network by finetuning the diffusion weights. The diffusion network is a convolutional neural network that takes an image as input and outputs a diffusion map. The diffusion map is a diffusion of the input image. The diffusion map is used to generate a new image from the original image. The diffusion map can be generated by a number of different methods, but OFT uses a method called "orthogonal finetuning". OFT is a way of controlling the diffusion map by finetuning the weight of the diffusion network. This is done by adding a small amount of noise to the diffusion map before it is used to generate a diffusion map. The noise is added to the diffusion map in such a way that the diffusion map is orthogonal to the original image. This means that the diffusion map is not affected by the original image. The OFT method is a way of controlling text-to-image diffusion by orthogonal finetuning the diffusion network. The OFT method uses a convolutional neural network to generate a diffusion map from an image. The OFT network is trained to generate a diffusion map that is orthogonal to the original input image. The OFT model is then used to generate a new diffusion map from the original image. This new diffusion map is then used to generate an image from the original image.

The OFT method is a method of controlling text-to-image diffusions by orthogonal finetuning. The OFT method has been shown to be effective in controlling text-to-image diffuses. The OFT method can be used to control text-to-image diffuses in a variety of ways. The OFT method was first introduced in the paper "Controlling text-to-image diffusion by orthogonally finetuning" by Jia et al. The OFT method consists of two steps: 1) training a convolutional neural network (CNN) to generate a diffusion map, and 2) finetuning the CNN weights to make the diffusion map orthogonal to the original image.

The paper "Controlling text to image diffusion by orthogonal finetunning" by Jia et. al. introduces the OFT method. The OFT method involves training a convolutional neural net (CNN) to generate an image from an input image. The CNN is then finetuned to make the image orthogonal to the input image. The OFTs method has been shown to control text-to-image difusions in a variety of ways.

The OFT method was first proposed in the paper "Containing text-to-image diffusion by Orthogonal Finetunning" by J. Jia et al. In this paper, the authors propose a method for controlling text-to-image diffusion using orthogonal finetuning. They show that the OFT method can be applied to a variety of text-to-image difusions, including those involving text-to-image translation, text-to-image generation, and text-to-image generation with text-to-image translation. The OFT method also has the potential to be applied to other text-to-image difusions such as text-to-video and text-to-video generation.

The OFT method has been used in a number of papers. In the paper "Controlling the text-to-image diffusion by OFT" by J. J. Jia et. al., the authors show that the OFT can be used to control the text-to-image diffusion in a variety of ways, including text-to-video generation, text-to-video generation with text-to-video translation, and text-to-video generation with video-to-text translation. In the paper "Text-to-image diffusion by OFTs" by J. J., the authors show that OFTs can be used to control video-to-text diffusion in a variety of different ways, including text-to-text translation, text-to-video translation, text-to-video generation, and text-to-video translation with video-to-text translation.

The OFT method can be implemented in a variety of ways and has been used in a variety of papers. In the papers "Controlling text-to-video diffusion by OFTs" and "Controlling text-to-text diffusion by OFTs" the authors show that OFT can be used in a variety of ways to control text-to-video diffusion. In the paper "Control text-to-video diffusion by orthogonal finetunings" the authors show that the method can be used to generate text-to-video diffusion in a variety of diffeomorphic ways. In the paper "Orthogonal finetuning of text-to-video diffusion" the authors show that orthogonal finetuning can be used to generate diffeomorphic text-to-video diffusion. The OFT method

The OFT method is an effective way to control text-to-image and text-to-video diffusions. The OFT method works by adding a small amount noise to the
