--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is a general framework that can be applied to any finetuning method that can be written as a matrix multiplication. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it reduces the number of trainable parameters without sacrificing performance. BOFT is also computationally efficient because it can be implemented using a single matrix multiplication. BOFT has been shown to be effective in finetuning large language models, such as GPT-3, on downstream tasks such as question answering and summarization. BOFT is an exciting development in the field of finetuning large models, and it has the potential to revolutionize the way we train and deploy AI models.

The paper "Parameter-Efficiency in Finetuning Large Language Models" presents a new method for finetuning large language model parameters called BOFT. BOFT stands for "Butterfly Orthogonal Finetuning." BOFT is a parameter-efficient fineting method that uses a butterfly matrix to reduce the number of parameters while still maintaining good performance. BOFT is a simple and effective method that can be easily implemented and used with any large language model. BOFT has been tested on several large language models, including GPT-3, and has shown significant improvements in parameter efficiency over other methods. BOFT is a promising new direction for finetuning large models and has the potential to significantly reduce the cost of training and deploying these models.

The paper "BOFT: Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Fine-Tuning via Factorization" introduces a new method for fining-tuning large language models called BOFT. BOft stands for "ButterFly Orthogonal Fine-Tuning." BOFT is an efficient method that reduces the number of trainableparameters without sacrificing performance. BOft uses a butterfly structure to create a sparse matrix that is then used to update the weights of the language model. This structure allows BOFT to be more efficient than other methods, such as OFT, which use a dense matrix. BOFT has been evaluated on several large language models and has shown improved performance compared to OFT. BOFT is a novel and promising method for finetuning largelanguage models.

The paper "Orthogonal Butterfly Finetuning" introduces a new method called BOFT for finetuning large neural networks. BOFT stands for Butterfly Orthogonal Finetuning. BOFT is a parameter efficient method that uses a butterfly network to update the weights of a neural network. BOFT is more parameter efficient than other methods such as OFT, because it uses a sparse matrix to update the weights. BOFT has been successfully applied to finetune large language models such as GPT-2 and GPT-3. BOFT is a new and promising method for fineting large neural networks.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Finetuning of Large Language Models" introduces a new method of finetuning large languagemodels called BOFT. BOFt stands for Butterfly Orthogonal Fine-Tuning. BOFT is an efficientmethod that reduces the number of parameters without sacrificing performance. This is achieved byusing a butterfly structure to create an update matrix that is then used in the finetuning process. BOFT hasbeen shown to be effective in improving the performance of large language models while reducingthe number of parameters. BOFT is an important development in the field of large language model finetuning and has the potential to revolutionise the way we train and use these models.

The paper “Parameter-Efficient Finetuning of Large Neural Networks” introduces a new method for fine-tuning large neural networks called BOFT. BO FT stands for Butterfly Orthogonal F ine-Tuning. BOFT uses a sparse matrix to reduce the numberof trainable parameters while still maintaining goodperformance. This is achieved by using a butterfly structure to createan update matrix that is then applied to the weights of the neuralnetwork. BOFT has been successful in improving the performance oflarge language models while reducing the number of parameters. BO FT is a promising new direction in the field of large neural network finetuning and hasthe potential to significantly reduce the computational cost oftraining and deploying these models.

In this paper, we introduce a new method for fineting large language models called BO FT. BO FT stands for ButterFly Orthogonal F ine-Tun ing. BO FT is a parameter-efficient method that uses a sparse matrix toreduce the number of trainable parameters while stillmaintaining good performance. This is achieved through the use of a butterfly structure to createa sparse update matrix that is then multiplied with the weights of the language models. BO FT hasbeen shown to be successful in improving the performanceof large language models while reducing the computational cost of training and deploying them. BO FT is a new and promisingmethod for fineting large languagemodels and has the potential torevolutionize the way we trainand use these models.

The BOFT paper introduces a new method for parameter-efficient finetuning of large language models. BOFT stands for ButterFly OrthogonAl Finetuning. BO FT
