--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorized orthogonal matrix to adapt a pretrained model. BOFT is a generalization of OFT, where the orthogonal matrix is factorized into a product of two orthogonal matrices. This factorization allows for more efficient parameter usage than OFT, which is particularly important for large models. In this paper, we present a new method for finetuning large models, called Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Butterfly (PE-BOFT). Our method is based on the idea of using a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix to finetune a pretrained model. We show that this block-diagonal approach can be further optimized by introducing a parameter-efficient block-diagonal orthogonal matrix. This new method, called Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Butterfly (PE-OFT), is shown to be more effective than BOFT and OFT in terms of parameter efficiency. We also introduce a new parameter-efficient block-diagonal method, called Parameter-Efficent Orthogonal Butterfly (PE-BOT), which is a block-diagonal version of BOFT. We evaluate our methods on several benchmarks, including ImageNet, CIFAR-10, and SVHN. Our results show that PE-OFT achieves the best performance among all methods, while being the most parameter-efficient. Furthermore, PE-BOT is shown to be the most efficient among all methods, with a significant reduction in parameter usage compared to BOFT.

Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) have become the standard for many natural language processing tasks. However, training these models is computationally expensive and resource-intensive. To address this, researchers have developed various techniques to improve the performance of LLMs without increasing their computational cost. One such technique is finetuning, which involves fine-tuning a pretrained model with a small dataset. Finetuning has been widely used to improve the performance of large language models, but it is not without its limitations. For example, finetuning can only be applied to a subset of the model's parameters, which may not be sufficient for achieving optimal performance. Additionally, finetuning can be computationally intensive, especially when using large datasets.
To address these limitations, researchers have developed methods that allow for more efficient finetuning. One such method is Orthogonal Finetuning, which uses an orthogonal matrix to transform the pretrained model. Orthogonal Finetuning has been shown to be effective in improving the performance of LLM models. However, Orthogonal Finetuning is limited in its ability to adapt the entire model, as it only modifies a subset of the parameters. To overcome this limitation, researchers have developed methods such as Block-diagonal Orthogonal Finetuning and Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning. These methods use a block-diagonal orthogonal transformation to finetune the model, which allows for more efficient parameter utilization. However, these methods are limited in their ability to adapt the entire pretrained model, as they only modify a subset of the parameters.
In this paper, we present Parameter-Efficient Ortho-Butterfly (PE-BOFT), a novel method for finetuning LLMs. Our method is based on a block-diagonal orthogonal finetuning approach, which is a generalization of the block-diagonal orthogonal finetting method introduced in [1]. Unlike previous methods, our method uses a block-diagonal orthogonal transform to finetune the entire pretrained model. We show how to optimize the block-diagonal orthogonal transform so that it is parameter-efficient. This optimization is achieved by introducing a parameter-efficient orthogonal matrix, which is a block-diagonally structured orthogonal matrix. We refer to this new method as Parameter-Efficient Orthographic Butterfly (PE-BOBT). Our method is shown to be more efficient than BOFT and OFFT in terms of parameter efficiency, while maintaining the same level of performance as BOFT. Furthermore, we introduce a new parameter-efficient method, called Parameter-Effi-ent Orthogonal Butterfly (PEO-BOBT), which is a blockdiagonal version of BOFT.
We evaluate our methods on several benchmark datasets, including ImageNet, SVHN, and CIFAR-10. Our results show that our method, PE-BOFT, achieves the best performance among the methods tested, while being the most efficient in terms of parameter usage. Additionally, we introduce a new method, called Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Butterfly (PEO-BOBT), which uses a block-diagonal structure to finetune the pretrained model. This method is shown to be the best-performing method among all methods tested, while being more efficient than BOFT. Finally, we introduce a new block-diagonal method, Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Butterfly, which is a blockdiagonally structured orthogonal matrix that is parameter-efficient. This method is shown as the best-performing method in terms of parameter efficiency among all methods tested.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we provide an overview of the methods we discuss in this paper. In Section 3, we present our method, Parameter-Efficient Orthagonal Butterfly (
