United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit

____________ United States Court of Appeals Fifth Circuit

Lyle W. Cayce United States of America, Clerk, serving as Plaintiff—Appellant, against Edward Constantinescu; Perry “PJ” Matlock; John Rybarczyk; Gary Deel; Stefan Hrvatin; Tom Cooperman; Mitchell Hennessey; and Daniel Knight, who are Defendants—Appellees.

Appeal from the United States District Court

for the Southern District of Texas USDC Nos. 4:22-CR-612-1, 4:22-CR-612-2, 4:22-CR-612-3, 4:22-CR-612-4, 4:22-CR-612-5, 4:22-CR-612-6, 4:22-CR-612-7, 4:22-CR-612-8

Present: Circuit Judges Higginson, Willett, and Engelhardt. Opinion by Circuit Judge Kurt D. Engelhardt: The defendants faced charges of securities fraud arising from their participation in a so-called “pump and dump” scheme. According to the superseding indictment, the defendants utilized misleading social media posts to prompt their followers to buy certain securities, falsely representing both their own trading positions and the securities’ prospective prices. This conduct allegedly led to artificial price inflation, from which the defendants benefited financially. The district court granted dismissal of the indictment, reasoning that it did not set forth a cognizable offense since it alleged only that the defendants deprived followers of potentially significant economic information, not a traditional property right. However, finding that the indictment adequately asserts a scheme and the requisite intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s order dismissing the indictment.

I

According to the government, Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight orchestrated a “pump and dump” securities fraud scheme. Each defendant reportedly amassed a substantial following on multiple social media platforms, where they portrayed themselves as proficient stock traders and regularly shared their trading decisions online. The government asserts that, as part of their scheme, the defendants would acquire a security and subsequently “pump” its value by disseminating inaccurate and deceptive information about it through social media, thereby encouraging others to purchase the security and artificially inflating its price. The defendants would then covertly “dump” the security, selling it at the elevated price for personal gain. See Indictment ¶¶ 13–14. It is alleged in the indictment that the defendants collectively earned $114 million through this fraudulent activity. They were charged with conspiracy to commit securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1349, as well as several counts of securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2. Knight entered a guilty plea, while the other defendants sought dismissal of the indictment. The district court granted the motion to dismiss, finding that the indictment did not sufficiently allege a scheme to deprive victims of a conventional property right. The government subsequently filed a timely appeal.

II

We assess the adequacy of an indictment anew. See United States v. Rafoi, 60 F.4th 982, 993 (5th Cir. 2023). The judiciary must accept the indictment’s factual assertions as accurate and evaluate whether they articulate a criminal offense. United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (citing United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)). For an indictment to be valid, it is required to: “(1) set out each essential element of the alleged crime; (2) adequately notify the accused regarding the charges levied against them; and (3) equip the defendant with protection from double jeopardy in subsequent proceedings.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996). To encapsulate, an indictment’s sufficiency depends upon whether all significant elements of the crime are properly asserted. United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (internal quotation simplified).

III

The securities fraud statute forbids engaging in schemes to “defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” as well as schemes “to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” U.S.C. § 1348. Although “there is limited precedent interpreting the securities fraud statute within this circuit,” § 1348 “incorporates fundamental principles from the mail and wire fraud statutes.” Accordingly, judicial interpretation has frequently mirrored that of mail and wire fraud, often referencing those cases in analyzing securities fraud allegations. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023). Guided by these borrowed concepts, the offense of securities fraud necessitates both (1) a “scheme to defraud” and (2) a corresponding “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339. To satisfy the “scheme to defraud” prong, there must be a material misrepresentation made “with the purpose of deceiving others to gain something valuable, such as money, from the party being deceived.” Id. (modification in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)). For the “intent to defraud” component, there must be evidence of an “intent to (1) deceive, and (2) inflict some harm as a result of the deception.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712). To summarize, a defendant is guilty of securities fraud when he has “‘engaged in deception’” with the purpose that “[o]btaining the victim’s money or property” was “‘an object’ of his fraudulent conduct.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (citing Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)). The defendants admit that the indictment properly pleads the element of deception. Nevertheless, they argue that the indictment fails to assert either a scheme to defraud or an intent to defraud, asserting instead that it alleges only an intent to withhold valuable economic information (rather than money or property) to benefit themselves (as opposed to causing injury to their followers). However, considering the Supreme Court’s reasoning in Ciminelli and Kousisis, we find their argument unconvincing.

A

The defendants contend that the district court correctly dismissed the indictment on the grounds that it fails to claim any scheme to divest their followers of a constitutionally protected property right. Although it is accurate that mere deprivation of valuable economic information does not suffice for a fraud conviction, the indictment in this instance extended beyond such an allegation; it explicitly asserted that the defendants orchestrated a scheme to defraud their followers out of money.

In *Ciminelli*, the Supreme Court determined that a conviction for fraud cannot rest solely on the loss of significant economic information. *U.S.* at 316. In that case, Ciminelli’s construction firm engaged a lobbyist to secure contracts funded by the state. *Id.* at 309–10. The prosecution based its wire fraud charges exclusively on the right-to-control theory. *Id.* at 310 & n.1. This theory posits that wire fraud can be established by demonstrating the defendant sought to deprive the victim of potentially important economic information needed to make discretionary financial decisions. *Id.* at 310. Essentially, under this theory, the relevant property interest is the victim’s “right to control [his] assets.” *Id.* at 311. The Court concluded that since federal fraud statutes are confined to safeguarding traditional property interests, and “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest,” the right-to-control theory cannot support a fraud conviction. *Id.* at 316.

The circumstances in the present case differ markedly from *Ciminelli*. The indictment does not refer to the right-to-control theory. Instead, it contends that the defendants, through false representations, persuaded their followers to invest in securities—i.e., to surrender their money or property. The indictment sets forth a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” which involves a defendant using a material misrepresentation to trick the victim into entering a contract that necessitates relinquishing money or property. *Kousisis*, 145 S. Ct. at 1388. When the Supreme Court considered the fraudulent-inducement theory, it emphasized that this doctrine “is not a repackaging of the right-to-control theory.” *Id.* at 1398 (quotation cleaned up). In contrast to the rejected right-to-control theory from *Ciminelli*, the fraudulent-inducement approach advanced here is aimed at protecting tangible property and monetary interests. *Id.* Thus, the indictment is not inconsistent with *Ciminelli*, as it claims that defendants deprived their followers of a recognized property interest by fraudulently inducing them to purchase securities.

B

Defendants contend that the indictment is insufficient because it does not allege an intent to defraud; they maintain that the scheme’s objective was personal profit rather than inflicting harm on a victim. However, the Supreme Court has recently dismissed a comparable position, clarifying that the fraud statutes do not require the victim to have experienced financial loss as a result of a defendant’s actions. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1392. In the Kousisis case, the defendant provided false information in order to secure state transportation contracts. State regulations mandated that contractors engage disadvantaged businesses as subcontractors, but Kousisis misrepresented his company’s compliance with this criterion. After his company secured the contracts, the purportedly disadvantaged subcontractor merely served as a “pass-through” without providing substantive services. Id. at 1389. Once this deception was discovered, the government charged Kousisis pursuant to a “fraudulent-inducement theory.” Under this theory, a defendant may be liable if a material misstatement is used to induce a party into a contract requiring payment or transfer of property—regardless of whether the scheme is aimed at causing a net financial loss to the victim, even if the defendant furnishes some value in return. Id. at 1388 (emphasis in original). Kousisis argued that such a theory was untenable absent proof that he intended to diminish the victim’s financial position. Id. at 1391. The Supreme Court, however, disagreed, stating that the fraud statutes are violated when a defendant schemes to “obtain” money or property from a victim, even if there is no intent to leave the victim financially worse off. Id. at 1392.

Here, the indictment adequately sets forth defendants’ intent to defraud their followers. It asserts, for instance, that the defendants disseminated “false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.” Indictment ¶ 13. Given that the fraud statutes do not mandate the occurrence of actual economic loss, the fact that followers may have received securities at market value does not preclude liability for fraud. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (finding that fraud liability may arise even where the defendant “provides something—be it money, property, or services—of equal value in return”). The defendants claim that their intention was merely to profit and not to inflict harm. In this context, however, that distinction is immaterial. The indictment alleges that the primary objective was financial gain, achieved by fraudulently inducing others to purchase securities. The narrative describing a “pump and dump” scheme for personal gain reinforces that their goal was to obtain money. Id. at 1397. As noted, “[a] fraud is complete when the defendant has induced the deprivation of money or property under materially false pretenses,” irrespective of whether there is any net financial loss to the victim. Id. at 1394 n.5. Therefore, the allegation that defendants manipulated their followers into purchasing securities on false pretenses suffices to allege injury. See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (discussing that fraud statutes do not necessitate a direct correlation between the victim’s loss and the defendant’s gain); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (interpreting Kousisis similarly).

IV

Because the indictment sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s dismissal of the indictment and REMAND for proceedings consistent with this opinion.
