Title: United States v. Constantinescu
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Date: October 2, 2025
Docket: No. 24-20143
Author: Kurt D. Engelhardt, Circuit Judge

The defendants faced charges of securities fraud based on their participation in a so-called “pump and dump” operation. According to the superseding indictment, they persuaded their followers on social media to buy securities by posting misleading information regarding their own holdings and the expected security prices, thus causing the prices to rise artificially and enabling defendants to reap financial benefits. The district court decided to dismiss the indictment on the grounds that it did not state an offense, reasoning that it only alleged defendants deprived followers of potentially significant economic facts rather than a conventional property right. However, as we determine the indictment adequately asserts both a fraudulent scheme and intent, we REVERSE the district court’s decision dismissing the indictment.

I

The government contends that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight participated in a scheme commonly referred to as “pump and dump” involving securities. Each defendant allegedly maintained substantial followings on social media platforms, where they portrayed themselves as expert stock traders and regularly shared their trading behavior online. According to the government, their alleged scheme involved purchasing a security, then “‘pumping’ the price of that security by disseminating false and misleading information about it on [social media], thereby encouraging other investors to buy in and artificially drive up the price,” and subsequently “dumping”—that is, selling the security without disclosure for their own profit. See Indictment ¶¶ 13–14. The indictment charges that defendants obtained $114 million in profits through this plan. Defendants were indicted for conspiracy to commit securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1349, along with multiple counts of securities fraud pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2. Knight entered a guilty plea, while the other defendants sought dismissal of the indictment. The district court dismissed the indictment, determining that it did not sufficiently allege that defendants conspired to deprive victims of a conventional property interest. The government filed a timely appeal.

II

We conduct a de novo review when assessing whether an indictment is sufficient. United States v. Rafoi, 60 F.4th 982, 993 (5th Cir. 2023). The court must accept all allegations within the indictment as true and determine if they properly state an offense. United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)). For an indictment to satisfy legal requirements, it must: “(1) enumerate each prima facie element of the charged offense; (2) fairly inform the defendant of the charges filed against him; and (3) provide the defendant with a double jeopardy defense against future prosecutions.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996). Ultimately, an indictment is adequate only if it sets out each essential element of the crime. United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).

III

The securities fraud statute forbids engaging in any “scheme to defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” as well as any “scheme . . . to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” U.S.C. § 1348. Although there is limited precedent interpreting the securities fraud statute within this circuit, § 1348 “adopts significant concepts found in the mail and wire fraud statutes,” leading courts to treat its terms in a comparable manner and frequently refer to mail and wire fraud cases when evaluating securities fraud allegations. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023). Accordingly, the elements of securities fraud are (1) a “scheme to defraud” and (2) the “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339. To satisfy the “scheme to defraud” prong, there must be a material falsehood “designed to mislead others in order to acquire something valuable, such as money, from the intended victim.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)). The “intent to defraud” component entails both an “intent to (1) deceive and (2) to bring about harm as a result of the deception.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712). In brief, the commission of securities fraud occurs when a defendant “engaged in deception” and when “[o]btaining the victim’s money or property” was “an object” of that deceitful scheme. Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)). Defendants do not dispute that the indictment sufficiently alleges acts of deception. Nevertheless, they argue that the indictment fails to allege either a scheme to defraud or the intent to defraud, asserting that it only claims they sought to deprive followers of useful financial information (as opposed to money or property) for their own gain (not to harm their followers). However, considering the Supreme Court’s holdings in Ciminelli and Kousisis, we reject this argument.

A

Defendants contend that the district court correctly dismissed the indictment on the grounds that it fails to allege a plan to deprive their followers of a constitutionally protected property interest. Although depriving someone solely of potentially useful economic information is insufficient for a fraud conviction, the indictment in this case alleged more than that, appropriately charging that defendants devised a scheme to defraud their followers of money.

In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court determined that a fraud conviction may not rest solely on the loss of significant economic information. U.S. at 316. In that case, Ciminelli’s construction firm made payments to a lobbyist in order to secure contracts funded by the state. Id. at 309–10. When the government charged Ciminelli with wire fraud, its case was based exclusively on a right-to-control theory. Id. at 310 & n.1. That theory posited that wire fraud could be proven by showing the defendant had devised a scheme to deny a victim access to economically valuable information essential for making informed discretionary decisions. Id. at 310. Stated differently, according to the right-to-control theory, a victim’s property consists of “the right to control [his] assets.” Id. at 311. The Supreme Court concluded the federal fraud statutes safeguard only classic property interests and that “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest.” As a result, “the right-to-control theory cannot form the basis for a [fraud] conviction.” Id. at 316.

This case, however, is distinguishable from Ciminelli. The indictment here does not rely upon the right-to-control theory. Instead, it asserts that defendants, through false statements, persuaded their followers to acquire securities—meaning the followers surrendered their money or property. The indictment adopts a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” whereby a defendant employs a material misrepresentation to induce a victim into entering a contract obligating the victim to give up money or property. Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1388. When assessing the fraudulent-inducement theory, the Supreme Court confirmed that it “is not a repackaging of the right-to-control theory.” Id. at 1398 (quotation cleaned up). Contrary to the right-to-control theory rejected in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory at issue “protects money and property.” Id. Thus, the indictment is not prohibited by Ciminelli, because it charges that the defendants, through fraudulent inducement, deprived their followers of a legally protected property interest by causing them to purchase securities.

B

Defendants subsequently contend that the indictment is deficient for failing to allege an intent to defraud, asserting that it only claims defendants sought to profit from their scheme rather than inflict harm on a victim. However, the Supreme Court has recently dismissed a comparable contention, determining that fraud statutes do not necessitate that a victim sustain an economic loss as a result of a defendant’s scheme. Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1392. In the Kousisis case, the defendant secured contracts with a state department of transportation through false statements. The state’s rules mandated that contractors engage a disadvantaged business as a subcontractor, and Kousisis misrepresented his company’s compliance with that requirement. After receiving the contracts, Kousisis treated the disadvantaged-business subcontractor merely as a "pass-through" entity. Id. at 1389. Upon the discovery of his deception, the government prosecuted Kousisis under the "fraudulent-inducement theory," wherein a defendant "uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property—regardless of whether the fraudster, who often provides something in return, seeks to cause the victim net pecuniary loss." Id. at 1388 (emphasis in original). Kousisis contended that this theory was impermissible since it would allow for a conviction without demonstrating that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.” Id. at 1391. The Supreme Court rejected that argument, holding that a defendant breaches the fraud statutes when he “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’ regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.” Id. at 1392.

Here, the indictment adequately asserts that defendants intended to defraud their followers. It includes, for instance, the claim that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.” Indictment ¶ 13. Since the fraud statutes do not require demonstrable economic injury, the fact that defendants’ followers obtained securities at market value does not negate the fraud allegations. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (holding that a defendant may be culpable for fraud even when providing “money, property, or services—of equal value in return”). Defendants assert that their goal was personal profit and not to harm any victim, but in these circumstances, that distinction is immaterial. The indictment claims that defendants’ aim was to acquire money, and that they achieved this by fraudulently persuading their followers to purchase securities. The description of defendants’ "pump and dump" scheme as a means to realize profits demonstrates that they “had money in mind.” Id. at 1397. "[A] fraud is complete when the defendant has induced the deprivation of money or property under materially false pretenses”—even if the victim does not experience a net financial loss. Id. at 1394 n.5. Therefore, the indictment’s assertion that defendants fraudulently induced their followers to purchase securities suffices to plead injury. See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (clarifying that the fraud statutes do not impose a “mirror image” requirement demanding that a defendant’s gain correspond to the victim’s loss); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (implementing Kousisis in a similar scenario).

IV

As the indictment adequately sets forth both a scheme and an intent to defraud, we VACATE the district court’s dismissal of the indictment and REMAND for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.