Title: United States v. Constantinescu
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Date: October 2, 2025
Docket: No. 24-20143
Author: Kurt D. Engelhardt, Circuit Judge

I

The government asserts that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight orchestrated a “pump and dump” securities fraud scheme. According to the government, each defendant maintained a significant presence on various social media outlets, portrayed themselves as expert stock traders, and frequently disclosed their trades publicly online. The government claims that the defendants implemented their alleged scheme by first acquiring securities and then artificially inflating (“pumping”) their prices by disseminating false or deceptive information on social media, thereby encouraging others to buy and artificially drive up prices, after which the defendants would covertly sell (“dump”) their holdings at a profit. See Indictment ¶¶ 13–14. The indictment claims that these activities generated $114 million in profits for the defendants. The charges included conspiracy to commit securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1349 and numerous counts of securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2. Knight entered a guilty plea, while the other defendants sought dismissal of the indictment. The district court granted dismissal, finding that the indictment did not adequately allege a scheme to deprive victims of a traditional property interest. The government filed a timely appeal.

II

We assess whether an indictment is sufficient using a de novo standard of review. United States v. Rafoi, 60 F.4th 982, 993 (5th Cir. 2023). As established in United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011), quoting United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999), “the court must accept the indictment’s allegations as true and determine if they describe an offense.” To be adequate, the indictment must: “(1) specify each prima facie element of the charged crime; (2) adequately apprise the defendant of the accusations against him; and (3) furnish the defendant with protection against double jeopardy in any subsequent prosecution.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996). Put succinctly, the indictment is only sufficient if it states every material element of the alleged crime. United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).

III

The statute addressing securities fraud makes it unlawful to “defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” or to “obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” U.S.C. § 1348. Although “[t]here is scant caselaw construing the securities fraud statute in this circuit,” § 1348 “borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes,” so courts have interpreted these terms similarly, frequently turning to mail and wire fraud precedents when evaluating securities fraud cases. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023). With this background, a securities fraud offense requires (1) a “scheme to defraud” and (2) that the scheme was carried out with an “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339. The “scheme to defraud” prong is satisfied by a material misrepresentation “intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)). For the “intent to defraud” prong, it must be shown that there was “an intent to (1) deceive, and (2) cause some harm to result from the deceit.” Id. (citing Evans, 892 F.3d at 712). Therefore, a person is guilty of securities fraud if he or she “‘engaged in deception’” and “[o]btaining the victim’s money or property” was “‘an object’ of his fraud.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)). Defendants admit that the indictment sufficiently alleges deceptive conduct, but argue it does not allege either a scheme or intent to defraud. They maintain the indictment simply charges them with aiming to withhold valuable economic information from their followers for self-enrichment, rather than seeking to deprive followers of money or property. In view of the Supreme Court’s rulings in Ciminelli and Kousisis, we reject defendants’ arguments.

A

The defendants contend that the district court correctly dismissed the indictment on the grounds that it fails to assert a scheme intended to deprive their followers of a property interest protected by law. Although it is correct that conviction for fraud cannot be predicated solely upon depriving someone of potentially beneficial economic information, in this case the indictment alleges more; it appropriately accuses the defendants of scheming to defraud their followers of money.

In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court determined that a conviction for fraud cannot rest solely on the loss of significant economic information. U.S. at 316. In that case, Ciminelli’s construction firm paid a lobbyist to secure state-funded contracts. Id. at 309–10. The prosecution in Ciminelli’s wire fraud case relied exclusively on a right-to-control theory. Id. at 310 & n.1. This right-to-control theory proposed that the government could “establish wire fraud by showing that the defendant schemed to deprive a victim of potentially valuable economic information necessary to make discretionary economic decisions.” Id. at 310. In essence, the theory treats the victim’s property interest as “the right to control [his] assets.” Id. at 311. The Supreme Court concluded that the federal fraud statutes are limited to protecting traditional property interests and explained that “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest,” such that “the right-to-control theory cannot form the basis for a [fraud] conviction.” Id. at 316. 

The present circumstances differ from Ciminelli. The indictment here does not reference the right-to-control theory; instead, it claims the defendants persuaded their followers to purchase securities by means of misrepresentations—thereby causing them to give up their money or property. The charging document articulates a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” where a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property.” Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1388. In its discussion of the fraudulent-inducement theory, the Supreme Court clarified that it “is not a repackaging of the right-to-control theory.” Id. at 1398 (quotation cleaned up). Unlike the right-to-control theory invalidated in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory presented here “protects money and property.” Id. Because the indictment alleges that the defendants, through fraudulent inducement, caused their followers to relinquish a protected property interest, it does not violate the rule set forth in Ciminelli.

B

Defendants further contend that the indictment is deficient because it fails to assert an intent to defraud, reasoning that it only alleges defendants sought to make a profit rather than to injure any victim. However, the Supreme Court recently rejected a comparable argument, concluding that the fraud statutes do not require proof that a victim experienced an economic loss from the defendant’s scheme. Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1392. In Kousisis, the defendant made false statements to secure contracts from a state transportation department, which mandated that contractors engage a disadvantaged business as a subcontractor. Kousisis falsely claimed his firm would comply, but after contract award, he merely used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as a “pass-through” company. Id. at 1389. Once his deception surfaced, the government prosecuted Kousisis under a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” whereby a defendant employs a material falsehood to deceive a victim into entering a contract that obligates payment or transfer of property, “regardless of whether the fraudster, who often provides something in return, seeks to cause the victim net pecuniary loss.” Id. at 1388 (emphasis in original). Kousisis asserted that this theory failed, as it allowed for convictions without evidence that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.” Id. at 1391. The Supreme Court disagreed, holding that a fraud statute violation occurs when a defendant “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’ regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.” Id. at 1392.

The indictment in the present case adequately alleges that defendants intended to defraud their followers, citing, for instance, that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.” Indictment ¶ 13. Because the fraud statutes do not require actual financial harm to the victim, the fact that defendants’ followers may have received securities at market value does not negate the fraud charges. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (finding liability may attach in fraud even if the defendant provides something of equal value, such as money, property, or services, in return). Defendants contend their purpose was profit, not victim harm, but in this context, that distinction is immaterial. As alleged, the objective was to obtain money by deceiving their followers into buying securities. The allegation that defendants engaged in a “pump and dump” scheme for personal gain demonstrates they were motivated by financial interest—showing they “had money in mind.” Id. at 1397. “[A] fraud is complete when the defendant has induced the deprivation of money or property under materially false pretenses”—irrespective of the victim’s net financial outcome. Id. at 1394 n.5. The indictment’s claim that defendants fraudulently convinced followers to buy securities suffices to assert an injury. See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (stating that fraud statutes do not require that the defendant’s gain directly mirrors the victim’s loss); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (applying Kousisis in a related circumstance).

IV

As the indictment properly sets forth a scheme and intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s decision to dismiss the indictment and REMAND the case for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.