Title: United States v. Constantinescu
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Date: October 2, 2025
Docket: No. 24-20143
Author: Kurt D. Engelhardt, Circuit Judge

I

The government asserts that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight orchestrated a securities “pump and dump” scheme. Each defendant maintained significant followings on various social media platforms, presenting themselves as experienced stock traders and routinely sharing their trades online. The government contends that, in executing their “pump and dump” scheme, the defendants would buy a security, “‘pump’ the price of that security by posting false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,” and subsequently “dump” the security by selling it covertly for a profit. Indictment ¶¶ 13–14. According to the indictment, defendants generated $114 million in profits through their actions. The indictment charged them with conspiracy to commit securities fraud, under 18 U.S.C. § 1349, as well as multiple counts of securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2. Knight entered a guilty plea, while the other defendants sought to have the indictment dismissed. The district court granted their motion, finding the indictment insufficient because it did not allege that the defendants intended to deprive victims of any traditional property right. The government then filed a timely appeal.

II

We examine the adequacy of an indictment anew. United States v. Rafoi, 60 F.4th 982, 993 (5th Cir. 2023). The court must accept as true the indictment’s allegations and decide whether they sufficiently allege a criminal offense. United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)). A valid indictment is required to “(1) set out each essential element of the alleged offense; (2) properly apprise the defendant of the accusations against him; and (3) enable the defendant to raise a double jeopardy defense to future charges.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996). Put simply, an indictment is adequate if it charges all necessary elements of the crime. United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).

III

The securities fraud statute makes it unlawful to devise schemes to “defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” and to use “false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises” to acquire money or property relating to the purchase or sale of any security. U.S.C. § 1348. Although “[t]here is scant caselaw construing the securities fraud statute in this circuit,” § 1348 “incorporates important elements from the mail and wire fraud statutes,” so courts have interpreted these provisions in a similar way, often looking to mail and wire fraud precedents in assessing securities fraud allegations. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023). Applying this framework, securities fraud is comprised of (1) a “scheme to defraud,” and (2) the defendant’s “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339. Satisfying the “scheme to defraud” element requires a material misstatement aimed at deceiving another in order to obtain something valuable, such as money, from the deceived party. Id. (alteration in original) (citing United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)). For the “intent to defraud” element, the government must show the defendant’s intent to deceive and intent to produce some resulting harm through the deceit. Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712). To summarize, securities fraud is established where a defendant “engaged in deception,” with the aim that “[o]btaining the victim’s money or property” was an “object” of the fraudulent conduct. Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)). Here, the defendants acknowledge the indictment sufficiently pleads deception, but assert that it fails to allege a scheme to defraud or intent to defraud. They argue the indictment alleges only an intent to withhold valuable economic information—not money or property—from their followers to personally benefit, rather than harm their followers. Taking into account the Supreme Court’s holdings in Ciminelli and Kousisis, we do not accept this argument.

A

The defendants contend that the district court correctly dismissed the indictment on the grounds that it fails to assert a scheme aimed at depriving their followers of any protected property interest. Although it is accurate that a fraud conviction cannot rest solely on the deprivation of potentially advantageous economic information, the indictment in this case included additional allegations by properly asserting that the defendants devised a scheme to defraud their followers of money.

In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court determined that a conviction for fraud cannot be sustained if it is predicated only on the loss of valuable economic information. U.S. at 316. In that case, Ciminelli’s construction firm paid a lobbyist in order to secure contracts funded by the state. Id. at 309–10. When prosecuting Ciminelli for wire fraud, the government relied exclusively on the right-to-control theory. Id. at 310 & n.1. This theory permits the government to attempt to “establish wire fraud by showing that the defendant schemed to deprive a victim of potentially valuable economic information necessary to make discretionary economic decisions.” Id. at 310. In essence, the right-to-control theory treats a victim's “right to control [his] assets” as a property interest. Id. at 311. The Court concluded that federal fraud statutes safeguard only conventional property interests and that “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest,” so “the right-to-control theory cannot form the basis for a [fraud] conviction.” Id. at 316. The facts here are distinguishable from those in Ciminelli. The indictment here does not invoke the right-to-control theory. Instead, it asserts that defendants, through false statements, persuaded their followers to buy securities—thereby surrendering money or property. The indictment invokes a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” which holds that a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property.” Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1388. When the Supreme Court reviewed the fraudulent-inducement theory, it made clear that this theory “is not a repackaging of the right-to-control theory.” Id. at 1398 (quotation cleaned up). In contrast to the right-to-control theory rejected by the Court in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory asserted here “protects money and property.” Id. Because the indictment alleges that defendants, through fraudulent inducement, deprived followers of a protected property interest in purchasing securities, it does not violate the holding of Ciminelli.

B

Defendants further contend that the indictment is deficient because it does not allege intent to defraud, asserting instead that their alleged scheme was designed for their own financial benefit, not to cause harm to any victim. However, the Supreme Court recently addressed and rejected a comparable claim, confirming that fraud statutes do not require proof that a victim suffered an economic loss as a result of the defendant’s scheme. Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1392. In Kousisis, the defendant had provided false information in order to secure contracts with a state department of transportation. The contractual arrangement mandated that contractors work with a disadvantaged business as a subcontractor, but Kousisis falsely certified compliance with this provision, subsequently using the subcontractor merely as a “pass-through” entity. Id. at 1389. Once this deception was discovered, Kousisis faced charges under the “fraudulent-inducement theory,” in which a material misstatement is used by a defendant to induce a victim into entering a contract that obligates the transfer of money or property—regardless of whether the defendant’s return of value results in a net financial loss to the victim. Id. at 1388 (emphasis in original). Kousisis argued that conviction should not be permitted absent evidence that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.” Id. at 1391. The Supreme Court disagreed, deciding that a violation of the fraud statutes occurs whenever the defendant “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’ regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.” Id. at 1392.

Here, the indictment adequately sets forth the defendants’ intent to defraud their followers. Among its allegations, it claims that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.” Indictment ¶ 13. Since the fraud statutes do not require proof of actual economic harm, the fact that the followers received securities at market value does not negate the fraud allegations. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (holding a defendant can commit fraud even if “he provides something—be it money, property, or services—of equal value in return”). Defendants maintain they only sought profit and did not intend injury to any victim. In this instance, however, such a distinction is meaningless. According to the indictment, defendants’ aim was to acquire money through deceit by persuading their followers to purchase securities under false pretenses. Their alleged conduct, a pump-and-dump scheme to earn profits, demonstrates that they acted with pecuniary motive. Id. at 1397. “[A] fraud is complete when the defendant has induced the deprivation of money or property under materially false pretenses”—it is irrelevant whether the victim experiences an actual net financial loss. Id. at 1394 n.5. Therefore, the indictment’s claims that defendants manipulated their followers into buying securities through fraudulent conduct are sufficient to allege injury. See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (noting that the fraud statutes do not require a precise match between the victim’s loss and the defendant’s gain); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (applying Kousisis to analogous facts).

IV

As the indictment adequately sets forth a scheme and an intent to defraud, we VACATE the district court’s order dismissing the indictment and RETURN the matter for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.