Title: United States v. Constantinescu  
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit  
Date: October 2, 2025  
Docket: No. 24-20143  
Author: Kurt D. Engelhardt, Circuit Judge

The defendants were charged with securities fraud stemming from their participation in a so-called “pump and dump” operation. According to the superseding indictment, defendants led their social-media audiences to buy securities by publishing posts that misstated their own trading activities and the likely future prices of those securities, thereby artificially driving up prices and securing profits for themselves. The district court dismissed the indictment, reasoning that its allegations did not state an offense because they only claimed the defendants attempted to deprive followers of potentially useful economic information, as opposed to a more conventional property interest. As the indictment adequately sets forth a fraudulent scheme and intent, we REVERSE the district court’s order dismissing the indictment.

I

The government contends that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight orchestrated a “pump and dump” securities scheme. According to the allegations, each defendant had a significant presence on various social media platforms, presenting themselves as expert stock traders and frequently sharing their trading actions online. The government claims that, as part of their “pump and dump” operation, the defendants would buy a security, artificially “pump” its price by posting false or misleading statements about it on social media to encourage others to purchase the security and drive up its value, and then covertly “dump” by selling their holdings at a profit. See Indictment ¶¶ 13–14. The indictment asserts that the defendants collectively gained $114 million from these activities. The charges included conspiracy to commit securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1349, as well as several counts of securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2. Knight entered a guilty plea; the other defendants sought to have the indictment dismissed. The district court granted dismissal, determining that the indictment did not adequately allege a scheme to deprive victims of a recognized property interest. The government filed a timely appeal.

II

We conduct a de novo review when evaluating whether an indictment is sufficient. United States v. Rafoi, 60 F.4th 982, 993 (5th Cir. 2023). As stated in United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (citing United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)), “[t]he court is required to take the allegations of the indictment as true and to determine whether an offense has been stated.” In order to be valid, an indictment must “(1) enumerate each prima facie element of the charged offense; (2) fairly inform the defendant of the charges filed against him; and (3) provide the defendant with a double jeopardy defense against future prosecutions.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996). Simply put, for an indictment to be adequate, it must set out all material elements of the offense. United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).

III

The securities fraud statute forbids devising schemes “to defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” and prohibits obtaining “by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” U.S.C. § 1348. Although there is limited precedent interpreting the securities fraud statute within this circuit, § 1348 “borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes,” which has led courts to apply similar principles, frequently referring to mail and wire fraud jurisprudence when evaluating securities fraud allegations. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023). Based on these concepts, securities fraud comprises (1) the existence of a “scheme to defraud” and (2) an “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339. The “scheme to defraud” requirement involves a material false statement “intended to deceive others for the purpose of obtaining something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)). The element of “intent to defraud” necessitates “a purpose to (1) deceive, and (2) bring about some harm through the deceit.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712). To summarize, securities fraud is committed where a defendant has “‘engaged in deception’” and where “‘[o]btaining the victim’s money or property’” constituted “‘an object’ of his fraud.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)). The defendants acknowledge that the indictment sufficiently alleges deception, but argue it does not plead either a scheme or an intent to defraud, asserting instead that it alleges only an intent to withhold valuable information from their followers to benefit themselves, rather than causing actual injury or depriving them of money or property. We disagree with that characterization, particularly in light of the Supreme Court’s rulings in Ciminelli and Kousisis.

A

Defendants contend that the district court correctly dismissed the indictment on the grounds that it fails to assert a scheme designed to deprive their followers of a legally protected property right. Although a defendant may not be found guilty of fraud based solely on depriving someone of potentially valuable economic information, in this instance the indictment alleged something more, namely, that defendants devised a scheme to defraud their followers out of money.

In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court determined that a conviction for fraud cannot rest exclusively on the loss of significant economic information. U.S. at 316. In that matter, Ciminelli’s construction firm compensated a lobbyist to assist in securing jobs financed by the state. Id. at 309–10. In its prosecution for wire fraud, the government relied exclusively on the right-to-control theory. Id. at 310 & n.1. Under this doctrine, the prosecution endeavored to “establish wire fraud by showing that the defendant schemed to deprive a victim of potentially valuable economic information necessary to make discretionary economic decisions.” Id. at 310. Thus, the right-to-control theory defined the victim’s property interest as “the right to control [his] assets.” Id. at 311. The Supreme Court concluded that federal fraud statutes only safeguard traditional property rights, and noted that “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest,” concluding therefore that “the right-to-control theory cannot form the basis for a [fraud] conviction.” Id. at 316.

The present case stands in contrast to Ciminelli. The indictment in this matter does not refer to the right-to-control theory. Instead, it asserts that the defendants caused their followers, by making false statements, to purchase securities—in other words, to give up their funds or property. The indictment advances a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” wherein a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property.” Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1388. Upon reviewing the fraudulent-inducement theory, the Supreme Court clarified that this theory “is not a repackaging of the right-to-control theory.” Id. at 1398 (quotation cleaned up). Distinct from the discredited right-to-control theory in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory at issue here “protects money and property.” Id. Because the indictment alleges the defendants deprived their followers of a property interest, namely by fraudulently inducing them to buy securities, it does not contravene the Supreme Court’s holding in Ciminelli.

B

Defendants next contend that the indictment is deficient because it does not allege an intent to defraud, asserting that the indictment only claims defendants sought personal profit rather than intending to cause harm to any victim. However, the Supreme Court has recently dismissed a comparable claim, stating that federal fraud statutes do not necessitate that a victim experiences an economic loss as a consequence of the defendant’s scheme. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1392. In that case, the defendant misrepresented his compliance with a requirement to subcontract with a disadvantaged business in order to win contracts from a state department of transportation. After securing the contracts, Kousisis engaged the supposed disadvantaged-business subcontractor solely as “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.” Id. at 1389. Once Kousisis’s misrepresentations were discovered, he was prosecuted on the “fraudulent-inducement theory,” under which a defendant is guilty if he “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property—regardless of whether the fraudster, who often provides something in return, seeks to cause the victim net pecuniary loss.” Id. at 1388 (emphasis in original). Kousisis contended this theory was flawed because it permitted conviction without proof that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.” Id. at 1391. The Supreme Court disagreed, determining that a fraud statute violation occurs when the defendant “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’ regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.” Id. at 1392. Here, the indictment adequately alleges defendants’ intent to defraud their followers, for instance, by asserting that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.” Indictment ¶ 13. Because the fraud statutes do not mandate actual economic loss, the fact that defendants’ followers obtained securities at market value does not negate the fraud charges. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (finding defendants may be liable for fraud even if they “provide[] something—be it money, property, or services—of equal value in return”). Defendants claim their intent was profit rather than to cause harm. However, this difference is immaterial in this context. As described in the indictment, defendants’ aim was to receive money, and they accomplished this by deceiving their followers into purchasing securities. The indictment’s allegation that defendants engaged in a pump-and-dump scheme for personal gain demonstrates they “had money in mind.” Id. at 1397. “[A] fraud is complete when the defendant has induced the deprivation of money or property under materially false pretenses”—regardless of whether there is an actual net financial loss to the victim. Id. at 1394 n.5. The claim that defendants induced their followers to purchase securities through fraudulent means suffices to plead injury. See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (noting that the fraud statutes do not require the victim’s loss to be a precise “mirror image” of the defendant’s gain); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (employing Kousisis in a comparable situation).

IV

As the indictment adequately sets forth both a scheme and an intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s order dismissing the indictment and REMAND the matter for further proceedings in line with this opinion.