Title: United States v. Constantinescu
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Date: October 2, 2025
Docket: No. 24-20143
Author: Kurt D. Engelhardt, Circuit Judge

The defendants faced indictment on charges of securities fraud due to their participation in a "pump and dump" operation. According to the superseding indictment, the defendants prompted their social-media followers to buy securities by making posts that misrepresented both their own trading activities and the potential value of those securities, which led to artificial inflation of prices and enabled the defendants to secure profits. The district court dismissed the indictment, reasoning that the allegations described only an attempt to withhold potentially advantageous economic information from followers rather than to deprive them of a conventional property right. As we find that the indictment adequately alleges both a fraudulent scheme and intent, we REVERSE the district court's order dismissing the indictment.

I

The government contends that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight participated in a securities “pump and dump” operation. According to the allegations, each defendant maintained a significant presence on social media platforms, representing themselves as expert stock traders and regularly sharing details of their trades online. The government asserts that the defendants would buy a particular security, then “‘pump’ the price of that security by posting false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,” before proceeding to “dump” the security by selling it covertly for profit. Indictment ¶¶ 13–14. It is further alleged in the indictment that the scheme generated $114 million in profits for the defendants. The charges brought included conspiracy to commit securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349 and several counts of securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2. Knight entered a guilty plea, while the other defendants filed a motion seeking to dismiss the indictment. The district court granted dismissal, finding that the indictment did not sufficiently allege that the defendants intended to deprive victims of any traditional property right. The government appealed the dismissal within the prescribed time.

II

We conduct a de novo review when assessing whether an indictment is sufficient. United States v. Rafoi, 60 F.4th 982, 993 (5th Cir. 2023). The court must accept the factual assertions in the indictment as accurate and evaluate whether it adequately alleges a criminal offense. United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (citing United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)). To be valid, an indictment must: “(1) enumerate each prima facie element of the charged offense; (2) fairly inform the defendant of the charges filed against him; and (3) provide the defendant with a double jeopardy defense against future prosecutions.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996). In essence, an indictment is sufficient only if it sets forth all material elements of the offense charged. United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).

III

The securities fraud statute forbids engaging in schemes designed to “defraud any person in connection with . . . any security,” as well as schemes aiming “to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” U.S.C. § 1348. Although “[t]here is scant caselaw construing the securities fraud statute in this circuit,” section 1348 “borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes.” For that reason, “courts have given the terms similar treatment,” frequently turning to precedents interpreting mail and wire fraud statutes when assessing securities fraud cases. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023). Based on these principles, securities fraud consists of (1) a “scheme to defraud,” and (2) the “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339. The “scheme to defraud” component necessitates a material misrepresentation “intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (citing United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)). For the “intent to defraud” prong, the requirement is “an intent to (1) deceive, and (2) cause some harm to result from the deceit.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712). To summarize, a securities fraud offense is committed when the defendant “ ‘engaged in deception’ ” and “ [o]btaining the victim’s money or property” constituted “ ‘an object’ of his fraud.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)). Here, the defendants acknowledge that the indictment sufficiently alleges deceptive conduct. However, they argue that it fails to allege a scheme to defraud or the necessary intent to defraud. Specifically, they assert that the indictment only claims they sought to deprive followers of valuable economic information (as opposed to money or property) for their own benefit (rather than to harm their followers). Considering the Supreme Court’s holdings in Ciminelli and Kousisis, we are not persuaded by this argument.

A

The defendants contend that the district court correctly dismissed the indictment on the grounds that it fails to allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a legally protected property right. Although a fraud conviction cannot rest solely on depriving someone of potentially valuable economic information, the indictment in this case alleges more, specifically that the defendants devised a scheme to defraud their followers of money.

In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court determined that a fraud conviction may not be predicated only on the deprivation of valuable economic information. U.S. at 316. In that case, Ciminelli’s construction company made payments to a lobbyist to secure contracts funded by the state. Id. at 309–10. The prosecution’s wire fraud case against Ciminelli relied exclusively on the right-to-control theory. Id. at 310 & n.1. According to this theory, the government sought “to establish wire fraud by showing that the defendant schemed to deprive a victim of potentially valuable economic information necessary to make discretionary economic decisions.” Id. at 310. Essentially, under this theory, the victim’s property interest is characterized as “the right to control [his] assets.” Id. at 311. The Supreme Court held that federal fraud statutes safeguard only traditional property interests, and since “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest,” the right-to-control theory cannot serve as the foundation for a fraud conviction. Id. at 316. The present case stands in contrast to Ciminelli. Here, the indictment does not reference the right-to-control theory. Instead, it asserts that defendants misled their followers through false statements to induce them to buy securities, thereby relinquishing their money or property. The indictment advances a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” in which a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property.” Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1388. The Supreme Court, when addressing the fraudulent-inducement theory, affirmed that this theory “is not a repackaging of the right-to-control theory.” Id. at 1398 (quotation cleaned up). Unlike the right-to-control theory, which was rejected in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory at issue here “protects money and property.” Id. Because the indictment alleges that the defendants, through fraudulent inducement, deprived their followers of a protected property interest by convincing them to purchase securities, it does not violate the rule articulated in Ciminelli.

B

Defendants contend that the indictment is deficient because it does not allege an intent to defraud, asserting that it only claims defendants sought personal profit from their scheme rather than intending to inflict harm upon any victim. However, the Supreme Court recently dismissed a comparable contention, ruling that fraud statutes do not mandate a showing that the victim actually endured economic loss as a result of a defendant’s scheme. Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1392. In Kousisis, the defendant misrepresented facts to secure contracts with a state department of transportation, falsely certifying that his business would comply with subcontracting requirements involving disadvantaged businesses. After receiving the contracts, Kousisis simply used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.” Id. at 1389. Upon the exposure of his falsehood, Kousisis was prosecuted under the “fraudulent-inducement theory,” which holds that a defendant violates the statute by employing a material misrepresentation to induce a victim into a contract necessitating the transfer of money or property, regardless of whether the defendant, who may provide equivalent value in return, intends to leave the victim with a net financial loss. Id. at 1388 (emphasis in original). Kousisis argued that this theory should not stand because it allows for conviction even without proof that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.” Id. at 1391. The Supreme Court disagreed, clarifying that the fraud statutes are breached whenever a defendant “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’” without regard to whether the victim ultimately suffers economic detriment. Id. at 1392.

The present indictment adequately asserts defendants’ intent to defraud their followers, including allegations that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.” Indictment ¶ 13. Because fraud statutes do not require proof of actual economic injury, the fact that defendants’ followers received securities valued at the market rate does not negate the viability of the fraud charges. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (holding that a defendant may still be liable for fraud even when he “provides something—be it money, property, or services—of equal value in return”). Defendants assert their intent was solely to profit, not to harm victims, but in this context, that distinction is immaterial. As alleged in the indictment, the aim of defendants’ scheme was to acquire money, and this was accomplished through fraudulent inducement of their followers to purchase securities. The fact that defendants engaged in a pump-and-dump scheme to obtain profits is evidence that their purpose was financial gain. Id. at 1397. “[A] fraud is complete when the defendant has induced the deprivation of money or property under materially false pretenses,” irrespective of whether the victim has experienced a net monetary loss. Id. at 1394 n.5. The indictment’s claim that defendants fraudulently caused their followers to purchase securities suffices to allege an injury. See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (stating that fraud statutes do not require a “mirror image” between the victim’s loss and the defendant’s gain); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (applying Kousisis to a comparable situation).

IV

Because the indictment sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s dismissal of the indictment and REMAND for proceedings consistent with this opinion.
