Title: United States v. Constantinescu
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Date: October 2, 2025
Docket: No. 24-20143
Author: Kurt D. Engelhardt, Circuit Judge

Defendants faced charges of securities fraud based on their participation in a “pump and dump” operation. According to the superseding indictment, the defendants prompted their social-media followers to buy securities by issuing posts that falsely represented both their trading activities and the expected values of certain securities. This caused the prices to rise artificially, from which the defendants benefited financially. The district court ruled to dismiss the indictment, holding that it did not establish an offense because it claimed only that the defendants aimed to deprive followers of potentially valuable economic information, not a conventional property interest. However, finding that the indictment adequately sets forth a scheme and an intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s dismissal of the indictment.

I

The government contends that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight executed a “pump and dump” scheme involving securities. According to the government, each defendant maintained a substantial following on various social media platforms. They purported to be proficient stock traders and routinely shared their trading behavior online. In facilitating their alleged scheme, the government asserts that the defendants would initially acquire a security and then “‘pump’ the price of that security by posting false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,” subsequently “dumping” their holdings by covertly selling the security at a profit. See Indictment ¶¶ 13–14. The indictment further claims that defendants realized $114 million in gains through this conduct. They were charged with conspiracy to commit securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349, in addition to several counts of securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2. Knight entered a guilty plea, whereas the other defendants sought to have the indictment dismissed. The district court granted the motion to dismiss, finding that the indictment did not allege a scheme to deprive victims of any conventional property interest. The government filed a timely appeal.

II

We assess the adequacy of an indictment using a de novo standard of review. United States v. Rafoi, 60 F.4th 982, 993 (5th Cir. 2023). The court must accept the indictment’s allegations as true and decide whether the facts alleged constitute an offense. United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)). For an indictment to be valid, it needs to: (1) list each essential element of the crime charged; (2) adequately advise the defendant of the accusations; and (3) enable the defendant to assert a double jeopardy defense in potential future prosecutions. United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996). Thus, an indictment is only sufficient if it alleges every material element of the crime. United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).

III

The securities fraud statute forbids both schemes to “defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” and schemes designed “to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” 18 U.S.C. § 1348. Although “[t]here is scant caselaw construing the securities fraud statute in this circuit,” the language of § 1348 “borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes,” such that “courts have given the terms similar treatment,” frequently analyzing securities fraud by relying on mail and wire fraud precedent. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023). Accordingly, two elements are essential to securities fraud: (1) a “scheme to defraud,” and (2) the “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339. To satisfy the “scheme to defraud” requirement, a party must have made a material misrepresentation that is “intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)). The “intent to defraud” prong is met by evidence showing “an intent to (1) deceive, and (2) cause some harm to result from the deceit.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712). Put briefly, an individual is liable for securities fraud if he “‘engaged in deception’” and if “[o]btaining the victim’s money or property” was “‘an object’ of his fraud.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)). The defendants here admit that the indictment properly alleges acts of deception. However, they argue that the indictment falls short of alleging a scheme to defraud or the requisite intent to defraud. They maintain that the indictment accuses them solely of intending to deprive their audience of valuable economic information (rather than money or property) for personal gain (as opposed to inflicting harm on their audience). Given the Supreme Court’s decisions in Ciminelli and Kousisis, we do not agree.

A

Defendants contend that the district court correctly dismissed the indictment on the ground that it fails to allege any scheme to deprive their followers of a legally protected property interest. Although it is accurate that a defendant cannot be found guilty of fraud merely for withholding information that could have economic value, the indictment in this case alleged more than that—it sufficiently claimed that defendants conspired to defraud their followers of money.

In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court determined that a conviction for fraud cannot rest exclusively on the loss of access to valuable economic information. U.S. at 316. In that case, Ciminelli’s construction firm made payments to a lobbyist to assist in securing jobs financed by the state. Id. at 309–10. When prosecuting Ciminelli for wire fraud, the government relied entirely on the right-to-control theory. Id. at 310 & n.1. This theory posits that the government may “establish wire fraud by showing that the defendant schemed to deprive a victim of potentially valuable economic information necessary to make discretionary economic decisions.” Id. at 310. Essentially, the victim’s alleged property under this theory is described as “the right to control [his] assets.” Id. at 311. The Supreme Court concluded that federal fraud statutes protect only established property interests and reasoned that “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest,” so “the right-to-control theory cannot form the basis for a [fraud] conviction.” Id. at 316. The present case differs from Ciminelli. The indictment here does not reference the right-to-control theory; instead, it asserts that defendants caused their followers, via misrepresentations, to purchase securities—meaning they were induced to relinquish money or property. The charging instrument advances a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” which occurs when a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property.” Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1388. The Supreme Court, in addressing the fraudulent-inducement theory, held that it “is not a repackaging of the right-to-control theory.” Id. at 1398 (quotation cleaned up). Contrary to the right-to-control theory rejected in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory pursued here “protects money and property.” Id. Accordingly, the indictment does not contravene Ciminelli, as it alleges the defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to purchase securities.

B

Defendants subsequently contend that the indictment is deficient because it does not allege an intent to defraud; rather, it asserts that defendants aimed to profit from their scheme without any intent to inflict harm on any victim. However, the Supreme Court recently dismissed a comparable argument, holding that under the fraud statutes, there is no requirement for a victim to actually incur an economic loss as a result of a defendant’s fraudulent conduct. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1392. In Kousisis, the defendant misrepresented facts to secure contracts with a state transportation department. The relevant agency required that contractors subcontract a portion of the work to disadvantaged businesses, and Kousisis made false claims that his company would comply with this obligation. After being awarded the contracts, Kousisis merely used the disadvantaged business as a “pass-through” entity. Id. at 1389. Upon discovery of his misrepresentation, the government prosecuted him under the “fraudulent-inducement theory,” which posits that a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property—regardless of whether the fraudster, who often provides something in return, seeks to cause the victim net pecuniary loss.” Id. at 1388 (emphasis in original). Kousisis contended this theory was invalid since it allowed for conviction even absent evidence showing the defendant sought to inflict financial injury on the victim. Id. at 1391. The Supreme Court dismissed that contention, holding that the fraud statutes are violated whenever a defendant “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’ regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.” Id. at 1392. In the present case, the indictment adequately charges that defendants intended to defraud their followers. For instance, it alleges that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.” Indictment ¶ 13. Because the statutes in question do not require the showing of actual financial loss, the fact that defendants’ followers received market-value securities does not negate the fraud charges. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (recognizing that a defendant may be guilty of fraud even if he “provides something—be it money, property, or services—of equal value in return”). Defendants maintain their motive was profit rather than victim harm. Nonetheless, in this context, that distinction is immaterial. As pled in the indictment, defendants’ aim was to acquire money, which they did by misleading their followers into buying securities. The indictment’s description of a pump-and-dump for profit demonstrates they were motivated by monetary gain. Id. at 1397. “A fraud is complete when the defendant has induced the deprivation of money or property under materially false pretenses”—even if the victim experiences no net pecuniary loss. Id. at 1394 n.5. The indictment’s account of defendants’ fraudulent inducement of their followers to buy securities is sufficient to allege injury. See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (stating that the fraud statutes do not require “mirror image” harm whereby the victim’s financial loss matches the defendant’s gain); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (applying Kousisis under similar circumstances).

IV

As the indictment properly charges both a scheme and an intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s decision to dismiss the indictment and REMAND the case for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.