Title: United States v. Constantinescu
Court: United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Date: October 2, 2025
Docket: No. 24-20143
Author: Kurt D. Engelhardt, Circuit Judge

The defendants faced charges of securities fraud due to their participation in a "pump and dump" operation. According to the superseding indictment, they encouraged their social media followers to buy securities by making false statements about their own trading positions and the likely future prices of those securities, thereby driving up the prices artificially and securing profits for themselves. The district court dismissed the indictment, reasoning that the charges only claimed the defendants intended to withhold potentially valuable economic information from their followers, rather than depriving them of a conventional property interest. However, because we determine that the indictment adequately alleges both a fraudulent scheme and the requisite intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s dismissal of the indictment.

I

The government contends that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight orchestrated a securities “pump and dump” scheme. Each defendant was known to have a substantial following on multiple social media platforms, where they portrayed themselves as expert stock traders and regularly shared their trading activities online. According to the government, the defendants would acquire a security and then “‘pump’ the price of that security by posting false and misleading information about the security on [social media] so that other investors were induced to purchase the security and artificially increase its price,” before proceeding to “dump” the security by covertly selling it for a gain. Indictment ¶¶ 13–14. The indictment asserts that the defendants made $114 million in profits from this operation. Charges against the defendants included conspiracy to commit securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1349, as well as several counts of securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2. Knight entered a guilty plea, while the other defendants filed motions to dismiss the indictment. The district court granted the motion to dismiss, finding that the indictment did not allege a scheme to deprive victims of a traditional property interest. The government filed a timely appeal.

II

We examine the adequacy of an indictment using a de novo standard. United States v. Rafoi, 60 F.4th 982, 993 (5th Cir. 2023). The court must accept the indictment's factual assertions as true and assess whether the indictment sufficiently charges an offense. United States v. Fontenot, 665 F.3d 640, 644 (5th Cir. 2011) (citing United States v. Crow, 164 F.3d 229, 234 (5th Cir. 1999)). A valid indictment must: “(1) set forth each essential element of the offense; (2) adequately notify the defendant of the accusation; and (3) allow the defendant to invoke double jeopardy protection against subsequent prosecutions.” United States v. Gaytan, 74 F.3d 545, 551 (5th Cir. 1996). Ultimately, an indictment is sufficient if it charges every material element of the alleged crime. United States v. Guzman-Ocampo, 236 F.3d 233, 236 (5th Cir. 2000) (quotation cleaned up).

III

The securities fraud statute forbids plans to “defraud any person in connection with . . . any security” as well as schemes “to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any money or property in connection with the purchase or sale of . . . any security.” U.S.C. § 1348. Although there is “scant caselaw construing the securities fraud statute in this circuit,” § 1348 “borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes,” which has led courts to interpret these provisions similarly, frequently referencing mail and wire fraud decisions when evaluating securities fraud allegations. United States v. Greenlaw, 84 F.4th 325, 339 n.6 (5th Cir. 2023). Accordingly, securities fraud involves (1) the existence of a “scheme to defraud” and (2) the presence of an “intent to defraud.” Id. at 339. To establish the “scheme to defraud” element, there must be a material misstatement “intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.” Id. (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Evans, 892 F.3d 692, 711–12 (5th Cir. 2018)). The “intent to defraud” requirement demands “an intent to (1) deceive, and (2) cause some harm to result from the deceit.” Id. (quoting Evans, 892 F.3d at 712). In essence, securities fraud occurs where a defendant “‘engaged in deception’” and “the obtaining of the victim’s money or property” was “‘an object’ of his fraud.” Kousisis v. United States, 145 S. Ct. 1382, 1390–91 (2025) (quoting Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306, 312 (2023)). Here, Defendants concede that the indictment sufficiently pleads deception. However, they argue the indictment fails to allege a scheme to defraud or intent to defraud. According to them, the indictment only claims they sought to withhold valuable economic information from their followers (but not money or property) in order to enrich themselves (but not harm their followers). Considering the Supreme Court’s rulings in Ciminelli and Kousisis, we reject that argument.

A

The defendants contend that the district court correctly dismissed the indictment on the grounds that it fails to allege a scheme depriving their followers of a legally protected property interest. Although it is accurate that a defendant cannot be found guilty of fraud for depriving someone solely of potentially useful economic information, in this case, the indictment does more by adequately charging the defendants with scheming to defraud their followers of money.

In Ciminelli, the Supreme Court determined that a conviction for fraud cannot rest exclusively on the deprivation of valuable economic information. U.S. at 316. In that case, Ciminelli’s construction company paid a lobbyist in an effort to secure state-funded contracts. Id. at 309–10. The government prosecuted Ciminelli for wire fraud based entirely on the right-to-control theory. Id. at 310 & n.1. Under this theory, the government sought to prove wire fraud by establishing that the defendant conspired to deprive a victim of potentially significant economic information needed for discretionary economic decisions. Id. at 310. Essentially, the right-to-control theory views the victim’s property as the “the right to control [his] assets.” Id. at 311. The Supreme Court concluded that federal fraud statutes only safeguard traditional property interests and that “[t]he right to valuable economic information . . . is not a traditional property interest,” rendering the right-to-control theory insufficient to support a fraud conviction. Id. at 316.

The circumstances here differ from those in Ciminelli. The indictment does not rely on or reference the right-to-control theory. Instead, it asserts that the defendants, through misrepresentations, persuaded their followers to purchase securities—in effect, to give up their money or property. This charge is premised on a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” wherein a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property.” Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1388. The Supreme Court, when reviewing the fraudulent-inducement theory, made clear that it “is not a repackaging of the right-to-control theory.” Id. at 1398 (quotation cleaned up). Unlike the right-to-control theory disapproved in Ciminelli, the fraudulent-inducement theory presented in this matter “protects money and property.” Id. Because the indictment alleges that defendants defrauded their followers of a protected property interest by inducing them to purchase securities through deceit, it does not contravene the holding in Ciminelli.

B

Defendants subsequently contend that the indictment is deficient because it does not allege an intent to defraud; according to defendants, it accuses them of aiming to profit from their scheme rather than seeking to inflict harm on any victim. However, the Supreme Court recently dismissed a comparable contention, ruling that the fraud statutes do not require that a victim experience financial loss as a result of a defendant's scheme. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1392. In Kousisis, the defendant obtained contracts from a state department of transportation through falsehoods. State regulations mandated that contractors work with a disadvantaged business, and Kousisis misrepresented that his company would comply with this requirement. Upon securing the contracts, Kousisis used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor merely as “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.” Id. at 1389. When this misrepresentation was discovered, Kousisis was prosecuted under a “fraudulent-inducement theory,” which posits that a defendant “uses a material misstatement to trick a victim into a contract that requires handing over her money or property—regardless of whether the fraudster, who often provides something in return, seeks to cause the victim net pecuniary loss.” Id. at 1388 (emphasis in original). Kousisis argued that the fraudulent-inducement theory was flawed since it allowed for conviction even in the absence of evidence showing that “the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.” Id. at 1391. The Court rejected this argument and held that the fraud statutes are violated when a defendant “schem[es] to ‘obtain’ the victim’s ‘money or property,’ regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.” Id. at 1392. Here, the indictment properly alleges that defendants acted with an intent to defraud their followers. For instance, it asserts that defendants “post[ed] false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security.” Indictment ¶ 13. Because the fraud statutes do not demand that there be actual economic harm, the fact that defendants’ followers received securities at market value does not negate the fraud charges. See Kousisis, 145 S. Ct. at 1391 (finding that a defendant can still be liable for fraud even if he “provides something—be it money, property, or services—of equal value in return”). Defendants maintain that their aim was to earn a profit, not to cause harm to any victim, but in this context, that distinction is irrelevant. The indictment alleges that defendants’ aim was to obtain money, which they pursued by fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities. That the indictment accuses defendants of “pump and dump” conduct to achieve profit demonstrates that they “had money in mind.” Id. at 1397. As stated, “[a] fraud is complete when the defendant has induced the deprivation of money or property under materially false pretenses”—irrespective of whether the victim endured a net pecuniary loss. Id. at 1394 n.5. The indictment’s assertion that defendants fraudulently induced their followers to purchase securities adequately alleges injury. See United States v. Baker, 923 F.3d 390, 403–05 (5th Cir. 2019) (clarifying that the fraud statutes do not require a “mirror image” showing where the victim’s loss directly supplies the defendant’s gain); see also United States v. Smith, Nos. 23-2840, 23-2846, & 23-2849, 2025 WL 2406104, at *6 (7th Cir. Aug. 20, 2025) (following Kousisis in a similar situation).

IV

Because the indictment sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud, we REVERSE the district court’s dismissal of the indictment and REMAND for proceedings consistent with this opinion.
