--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model" introduces Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) as an alternative to the usual RLHF pipeline like PPO. What is DPO?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model" introduces Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) as an alternative to the usual RLHF pipeline like PPO. What is DPO?<|EOT|>Direct Preference Optimization (DPO; Schulman et al., 2017) is a model-based reinforcement learning algorithm that learns from preferences rather than rewards. It is an alternative to the usual reward-hunglerestoration learning from human feedback (RLHF) pipeline like PPO.

In RLHF, we typically use a reward model to estimate the reward of a policy, and then optimize our policy to maximize the expected reward. However, it is often difficult to specify a good reward model, and the reward that we get under a suboptimal policy may not be a good measure of the quality of that policy. In contrast, DPO learns directly from preferences, which can be specified more easily and may provide a better measure of the quality of a policy.

In DPO, we do not need to specify a reward model. Instead, we specify a preference model, which is a distribution over trajectories that represents our preferences. The preference model is typically parameterized by a neural network, and we train it on examples of preferred and dispreferred trajectories. Once we have trained a preference model, we can use it to evaluate the quality of policies. To find a good policy, we optimize our policy to maximize its expected score under the preference model.

DPO uses a model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) algorithm called value-of-information (VOI; Kupcsik and Littman, 2011), combined with a technique called preference sampling (PS; Levine and Koltun, 2013), to learn the value function of a policy under the preference model. The VOI algorithm estimates the value of being in a particular state, under a policy, as the expected reduction in uncertainty (measured by the Kullback-Leibler divergence) about the outcome under the preference model, caused by the best possible action in that state. PS is a sampling algorithm that efficiently explores the state-action pairs that are most informative for refining the preference model.

Once we have learned the value function under the preference model, we can optimize our policy using standard policy optimization algorithms, such as proximal policy optimization (PPO; Schulman et al.,  said.<|endoftext|>
