--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences, Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), instead of the usual RLHF pipeline like PPO. Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences, Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), instead of the usual RLHF pipeline like PPO. Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is a simple algorithm that directly optimizes a language model to satisfy human preferences, without explicit reward modeling or reinforcement learning. DPO is based on the insight that the optimal policy for a preference objective can be represented as a simple reparametrization of the original language model. DPO is able to efficiently optimize large language models while converging to the optimal solution for a wide variety of preference objectives. DPO is simple to implement, easy to tune, and does not require any reward modeling or hyperparameter tuning for the RLHF stage. DPO is also computationally efficient, able to train a 11B parameter model on 8K samples per iteration using a single 24GB GPU.

The paper introduces a new algorithm called Direct Preference Optimization (D PO) that directly optimizes a pretrained language model to adhere to human preferences, without the need for explicit reward modeling or RLHF. D PO is based on the insight tha the optimal policy for a given preference objective can be represented a simple reparameterization of the original language mo del. D PO is able to efficiently optimize larg language models while converging t the optimal solution for a wid variety of preference objectives. In contrast to RLHF algorithms, D PO is simple to implement, eas to tune, and does no require any reward modeling or hy perparameter tuning for the RLFH stage. D PO is also computationally efficient; it is able to train a 1 1B parameter model on 800 samples per iteration using a sing 24GB GPU.

Formalizing the Problem
We start by defining the RLHF problem as learning a policy π θ from a pretrained language model π 0 that maximizes the expected sum of rewards under a reward function r(·): where s ∼ π 0 (s | < s, a >) denotes sampling from the distribution of the pretrained language model, and A ∼ π θ (A | s) denotes sampling from the policy being learned. In the RLHF setting, the reward function r(·) is typically learned from human preferences using a preference learning algorithm such as PPO-PL (Christiano et al., 2017). Once the reward function is learned, the policy is optimized using RLHF algorithms such as PPO (Schulman et al., 2018) or TRPO (Schulman * Equal contribution. 2015). In this section, we will present DPO, a simple algorithm for directly optimizing a pretrained language model to satisfy human preference objectives, without the need for an explicit reward function or RLHF. DPO is based the following insight: the optimal policy for a particular preference objective can be represented by a simple reparameterization (i.e. relabeling) of the original language model.

Direct Preference Optimization
We start by defining a preference objective as a mapping from pairs of responses < s, a > to a real value in the range [−1, 1]. For example, the preference objective might be to maximize the probability of a human providing a positive label for a generated response, in which case the preference objective would be defined as f (s, a) = 1 − exp(−log P (s | a)). In general, a preference objective can be any function that takes in a pair of responses and outputs a real value in the interval [−1,  1]. For example a preference objective might be to minimize the KL-divergence between the distribution of two responses, or to maximize the agreement between the distribution of responses and a set of human labels. In this section, we present DPO, a general algorithm for optimizing a pretrained language model π θ to adhere to a given preference objective f (s, a). DPO is able to optimize a pretrained language model without the need for an explicitly defined reward function or RLHF.

The DPO Algorithm
The DPO algorithm is presented in Algorithm 1. DPO is a simple iterative algorithm that takes as input a pretrained language model π0 and a preference objective f (s,a). DPO initializes a policy π θ and then iteratively optimizes the policy using gradient ascent with a learning rate of η. At each iteration, DPO samples a batch of pairs of responses < s,b > from the distribution of the policy π θ . DPO then optimizes the policy by updating the parameters θ in the direction of the gradient of the preference objective with respect to the policy parameters θ, i.e. ∇ θ f (s, a; θ). DPO then updates the gradient of the preference function with respect to the policy using the reparameterization trick (Kingma and Ba, 2014), which allows us to efficiently estimate the gradient of the preference with respect to the policy without sampling from the true data distribution. The reparameterization trick works by sampling from the data distribution using the current policy π θ and the old policy π θ−1 , and then computing the gradient of the preference using the difference between the sampled data under the two
