--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that leverages the butterfly structure to construct orthogonal matrices. BOFT achieves a better trade-off between performance and parameter-efficiency compared to OFT and LoRA. BOFT is a general finetuning approach that can be applied to any finetuning task. BOFT is a straightforward method to implement, requiring only a single orthogonal matrix to be learned. BOFT is also compatible with existing finetuning techniques, such as adapting learning rates and employing warm restarts. BOFT is a promising approach for finetuning large models, and we anticipate that it will be widely adopted.

The paper is well written and easy to follow. The authors have done a great job of explaining the method and its advantages. The experimental results are also very convincing. I have only a few minor comments.

1. The authors claim that BOFT is more parameter-efficient than OFT. However, the comparison is only made with the block-diagonal OFT. Is it possible to compare BOFT with the full OFT? I suspect that BOFT will still be more parameter-efficient than full OFT, but it would be nice to see some experimental results.

2. The authors mention that BOFT can be viewed as a generalization of LoRA. It would be interesting to see how BOFT compares to LoRA in terms of parameter-efficiency.

3. The authors mention that the butterfly structure can be viewed as a product of sparse matrices. Is it possible to use this perspective to further reduce the number of parameters in BOFT?

4. The authors mention that it is possible to use a single orthogonal matrix for all layers. Is it possible to extend this idea to use a single orthogonal transformation for all neurons in a layer? This could potentially further reduce the number of trainable parameters.

5. The authors mention that they use a fixed learning rate for all layers. Is there any reason why a layer-wise learning rate schedule cannot be used with BOFT?

6. The authors mention that OFT can be viewed as a special case of BOFT. It would be interesting if the authors could provide some insight into why the butterfly structure is beneficial for parameter-efficiency.

7. The authors mention that their method can be viewed as a form of low-rank adaptation. It would be interesting for the authors to discuss the relationship between their method and other low-rank adaptation methods, such as LoRA.

8. The authors mention that a single orthogonal matrix is sufficient for BOFT. Is it possible to further reduce the number

of trainable parameters by sharing the orthogonal matrix across layers?

9. The authors mention that orthogonal matrices are more expressive than low-rank matrices. It would be interesting

for the authors to provide some insight into why this is the case.

10. The authors mention that using a single orthogonal matrix for the entire model can lead to performance degradation. Is it possible to mitigate this by using a different orthogonal matrix for each layer?

11. The authors mention that learning a single orthogonal matrix is more efficient than learning multiple low-rank matrices. Is it possible for the authors to provide some theoretical justification for this claim?

12. The authors mention that training a single orthogonal matrix is easier than training multiple low-rank matrices, but they do not provide any evidence to support this claim. Is it possible for them to provide some empirical evidence to support this claim?

13. The authors mention that butterfly matrices are more expressive than block-diagonal matrices. Is it possible

for the authors to explain why this is the case?

14. The authors mention that LoRA is a special case of BOCT. Is it possible for

the authors to provide some insight as to why LoRA is a special

case of BOFT?

15. The authors mention that block-diagonal OFT is a special case of

BOFT. Is it possible for authors to provide some insight

as to why block-diagonal OFT

is a special case of BOF

16. The authors mention that both BOFT and OFT are special cases of butterfly matrices. Is it possible
for the authors to provide a more detailed explanation of this relationship?

17. The authors mention that there is a trade-off between expressivity and parameter-efficiency. Is it possible for
the authors to provide some theoretical insight into this trade-off?

18. The authors mention that parameter-efficiency is important for reducing memory usage. Is it possible for the authors to provide some empirical evidence that BOFT reduces memory usage?

19. The authors mention that reducing the number of trainable parameters can help to reduce overfitting. Is it possible for 
the authors to provide some evidence that BOFT reduces overfitting?

20. The authors mention that overparameterization is important for generalization. Is it possible for  
the authors to provide a more in-depth discussion of the relationship between overparameterization and generalization?

21. The authors mention that increasing the number of trainable parameters allows the model to fit the data more closely. Is it possible for   
the authors to provide empirical evidence that BOFT allows
