----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At some point, Cutbank ordered D.F. to rouse others sleeping in the house, including her two teenage sons and her housemate, C.F.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, after Cutbank ordered D.F. to wake other people sleeping in the house, those people were specifically identified as "her two teenage sons and her housemate, C.F.".
target: her two teenage sons and her housemate, C.F.

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At trial, D.F. testified she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle a “handful of times” before the incident.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, D.F. testified at trial that she had seen Cutbank with the sawed-off rifle before the incident "a “handful of times”".
target: a “handful of times”

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It also found he had three or more prior violent felony convictions, triggering the Armed Career Criminal Act’s enhanced penalties.
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the jury’s finding that triggered the Armed Career Criminal Act’s enhanced penalties was that Cutbank had prior violent felony convictions—three or more.
target: three or more

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, Cutbank argues that application of the § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) 4-level enhancement results in a within-range sentence that “conflicts with the core principle of 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a)” that a sentence “be sufficient, but not greater than necessary, to comply with the purposes set forth in paragraph (2) of this subsection.”
fact: In United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, Cutbank argued on appeal that applying the four-level enhancement under U.S.S.G. § 2K2.1(b)(6)(B) produced a within-Guidelines sentence that conflicted with the core principle of 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a), which says a sentence must "be sufficient, but not greater than necessary"
target: be sufficient, but not greater than necessary

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Thus, the district court was aware of [Cutbank’s] arguments, and we therefore presume that the district court considered and rejected them.” United States v. Masood, 133 F.4th 799, 809 (8th Cir. 2025) (quotation omitted).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," after the district court stated at sentencing that it had reviewed the PSR, the sentencing memoranda, and the § 3553(a) factors relevant to a possible variance, the appellate court presumed that the district court had “considered and rejected them” with respect to Cutbank's arguments.
target: “considered and rejected them”

