----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Thus, the district court’s evidentiary rulings “did not influence or had only a slight influence on the verdict.” Id. at 998.
fact: In its harmless-error discussion of the challenged evidentiary rulings in United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Eighth Circuit said the district court’s evidentiary rulings either did not influence or influenced only slightly "the verdict".
target:  "the verdict".
probe: In its harmless-error discussion of the challenged evidentiary rulings in United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Eighth Circuit said the district court’s evidentiary rulings either did not influence or influenced only slightly

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “We will not overturn a conviction based on the cumulative effect of trial errors unless there is substantial prejudice to the defendant.” United States v. Keys, 918 F.3d 982, 985 (8th Cir. 2019) (quotation omitted).
fact: According to the opinion in United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Eighth Circuit said that a conviction would not be overturned on that basis unless the defendant showed substantial prejudice from the cumulative effect of trial errors.
target:  the cumulative effect of trial errors.
probe: According to the opinion in United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank, the Eighth Circuit said that a conviction would not be overturned on that basis unless the defendant showed substantial prejudice from

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In determining an appropriate sentence, “a district court should begin all sentencing proceedings by correctly calculating the applicable Guidelines range.” Gall v. United States, 552 U.S. 38, 49 (2007).
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," Gall v. United States said that a district court should correctly calculate at the beginning of sentencing proceedings "the applicable Guidelines range".
target:  "the applicable Guidelines range".
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Justin Lyle Cutbank," Gall v. United States said that a district court should correctly calculate at the beginning of sentencing proceedings

