--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is an extension of OFT, which is a parameter-efficient finiteting method that prevents catastrophic forgetting by learning orthogonal weight transformations. BOFT improves the parameter efficiency of OFT by a factor of up to 64, while maintaining performance comparable to fully parameterized OFT on a range of finetuning tasks, including natural language tasks, computer vision tasks, and control tasks in continuous control. BOFT achieves this efficiency by using a butterfly structure, which recursively applies a small set of orthogonal transformation matrices to input features. The number of transformation matrices is orders of magnitude smaller than the number of weights in a neural network. BOFT can be viewed as a parameter-efficient alternative to standard finetuning that re-uses most of the pretrained model's parameters. On the other hand, BOFT can also be viewed as a more memory-efficient alternative to quantization, which typically reduces a model's 32-bit floating-point weights to 4-bit or 8-bit integers. BOFT achieves its efficiency by learning a butterfly structure that recursively applies a small set orthogonal transformation matrices to input feature maps. The number of transformation matrice is one order of magnitude smaller than the total number of weights in a ResNet-50. Despite its parameter-efficiency, BOFT performs better or par with fully-parameterized OFT and frozen pretrained models on a range of finetting tasks including language modeling, classification, and computer vision. BOFT is also more stable and converges faster than OFT. The paper evaluates BOFT on a range of finettig tasks, including language modeling, classification with Imagenet and COCO, object detection with COCO, and image classification and video action recognition with ADE20K. BOFT also evaluates on a range of sequence length including 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, and 1024. BOFT is compared to standard finetuning, OFT, and other state-of-the-art parameter-efficient finetuning and retraining methods including Tiny Float (TF), LowRank (LR), and Rethink. BOFT is implemented in PyTorch and is available open source at https://github.com/google-research/parameter-efficient-orthogonal-finetuning.
The rest of this blog post is organized as follows. Section 2 provides background information on parameter-efficient finetuning, OFTs butterfly structure, and orthogonal matrices. Section 3 provides an overview of BOFT. Section 4 provides experiments results and conclusions.

Background
This section provides background information on parameter efficient finetuning, OFTS butterfly structure, and orthogonal matrix.

Parameter-Efficient Finetuning
Finetuning is a simple and effective approach to improving a pretrained model's performance on new tasks (Devlin et al., 2019;He et al., 2020;Raffel et al., 2021). However, finetuning a large model can be expensive in terms of memory and computation requirements. To address this, there has been a line of work on parameter-efficient finetunig, which re-uses most of a pretrained model's parameters and only adds a small number of finetuning parameters. Parameter-efficient finetuning methods can be divided into two categories: methods that retrain a pretrained model's weights and methods that learn weight transformations that are applied to a pretrained model's frozen weights. Retraining-based methods, such as Tiny Float (TF) (Tan et al., 2022), learn a small linear projection from task tokens to a small subset of the pretrained model's weights. Transformation-based methods, such as LowRank (LR) (Li * Corresponding author. and Li, 2022) and Orthogonal Finetuning , learn weight transformations that are multiplied with a pretrained model's frozen weight matrices. Transformation-based methods tend to achieve better performance than retraining-based methods while still being computationally and memory efficient. Orthogonal Finetuning  is a transformation-based method that prevents catastrophic forgetting through learning weight transformations that are orthogonal, meaning that the transformations preserve the pairwise inner product of neurons. More formally, let W be the set of all weight matrices in a neural network and T be the set of all trainable weight transformations. Then, an orthogonal finetuning method learns a set of transformations T such that for each weight matrix W i in W, the finetuned weight matrix is given by where Θ i is the i-th transformation in T . Orthogonal Finetuning learns transformation in the form of low-rank matrices, such that the total number of trainable parameters is orders of magnitude smaller compared to the number of weights in the pretrained model. Despite its parameter efficiency, Orthogonal Finetuning can perform comparably to full retraining or even improve performance on the pretrained model's task (Li * Corresponding Author and Li, 2021;Li and Li, 2023).

OFT's Butterfly Structure
Orthogonal Finetuning learns a set of transformation matrices
