--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that can be applied to any large model. BOFT is based on the butterfly structure, which is a common building block in many neural network architectures. BOFT uses a butterfly structure to factorize the finetuning matrix, which leads to a significant reduction in the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is simple to implement and can be used with any large model. BO FT is a parameter-efficient fin etuning method that can be used with any larg e model. BOFT is simple t o implement and can be used w ith any large model. BOft is a parameter-efficient fin ituning method that can be u sed with any large model. The BOFT method is simple to implement and c an be used with any large m odel. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning method that can beused with any large model. It is simple to implement andcan be used with any large models. BOFT is a paramete r-efficient finetuning methodthat can be used with any l arge model. It is simple t o implementand can be used with anylarge models. BOFT is apara meter-efficient finetuning methodth at can be used with anyl arge model. It issimple to implementand can be usedwith any large models. BO FT is a paramete r-efficien t finetuning methodth a t can be used with anylarg e model. It is simpleto implementand can be usedw ith any large models. BOft is a paramete r -efficien t finetun ing methodth at can beused with any larg e model . It is simple t o implem entand can be usedw it h any large models. BOF T is a paramete r-ef ficient finetun ing method th at can be used w ith an y large model. It is s imple t o implem en t and can be used w it h an y large models. BOFTis a parameter-efficient finetun ing method that can be used w ithany large model. It is sim ple t o implem em ent and can be used w its any large models. BO F T is a parameter-efficien t finitun ing method th at c an be used w ith any large model. It is simp le t o implem e nt and can be used w ith an y large models. The BOFT methodis a parameter-efficien tin g method th at can beused w ith any large model.It is simple t o im plem entand can beused w ith an y large models. B OF T is a parameter-effi cient finitun ing methodth at c an be usedw ith an y large model.It is simple to implem entand c an be usedw it h an y large model. BOFTis a paramete r-effi cient finitutin g methodth at can be u sed w ith an y large m odel. It is simple t to implem ent and can be u sed w it h an y larg e m odel. BO FT is a para meter-efficien t fin itun ing methodth at ca n be used w ith an  y large m odel . It is simple t to implementand can be u sed w ith an y larg e m odels. BOFTis a para meter-efficienc e fin itun ing method th at ca n be usedw ith an  y large model. It i s simple t o implementand ca n be usedw it han y large models. BO FT i s a para meter-efficienci al fin itun ing method that can b e used w ith an y larg e model. It is s i m ple t o implementand can b e used w it h an  y larg e models. BOFTis an efficient and parameter-efficient finetuningmethod that can be used withany large model. It issimple t o implementand canbe used with any large models.The BOFT method is a parameter-efficient finitetuning method that can be use withany large model. The BO FT method is a parameter-efficientfinetuning method that canbe used withany large model.The BOFT method is an efficient and parameter-efficientfinetuningmethod that canbe used with anylarge model. The BOFTmethod is a parameter-efficient finettuning method that can beuse with any large model.<|endoftext|>
