--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the motivation of the paper, and then I'll explain the main idea of the paper. Finally, I'll talk about the limitation of the paper.

Motivation of the paper

The motivation of the paper is to reduce the number of trainable parameters in finetuning. The paper says that the number of trainable parameters is the bottleneck of finetuning. I agree with this statement. The number of trainable parameters is a bottleneck of finetuning, but it's not the only bottleneck. I think the number of trainable parameters and the training data are the two bottlenecks of finetuning. The number of trainable parameter is the bottleneck of finituning because it's hard to train a model with a small number of trainable parameters. The training data is the bottleneck of finetting because it's hard to finetune a model with a small amount of training data. In the paper, the authors only focus on the number of trainable parameters. They don't talk about the training data. I think the training data is also important. If you have a lot of training data, you can use a large number of trainable parameters. If you have a small amount of training, you should use a small number of trainable parameter. In the paper, they don't talk about the amount of training data. I think it's a limitation of the paper.

The main idea of the paper

The main idea of the orthogonal finetuning is to learn a matrix that transforms the pretrained weight matrix. The orthogonal finetuning uses a block-diagonal matrix to transform the pretrained weight matrix. In the paper, "Parameter-Efficient Finetuning via Factorizations", the authors use a block-diagonal matrix with a small size to transform the pretrained weight matrices. The block-diagonal matrix is composed of many small matrices. Each small matrix is used to transform a small part of the pretrained weight matrix. This is a good idea. It reduces the number of trainable parameters.

The limitation of the paper

The limitation of the paper is that the block-diagonal matrix is not trainable. The block-diagonal matrices are fixed. They don't change during the training process. I think it's not a good idea. The block-diagonal matrice should be trainable. If the block-diagonal matrix can be trainable, we can use a large block-diagonal matrix to finetune the pretrained weight matrix. If the block-diagonl matrix is not trainable, we can only use a small block-diagonal matrix to fine-tune the pretrained weight matrix.

In the paper, the authors use a block diagonal matrix to transform the pretrained weights. The block diagonal matrix is composed of many block matrices. Each block matrix is used to transform one part of the pretrained weight matrices. This is a good way to reduce the number of parameters. However, the block diagonal matrix is not trainable. It's fixed. I think the block diagonal matrix should be trainable. If we can make the block diagonal matrix trainable, we can use many block diagonal matrices to finetune the weight matrices. This will greatly reduce the number of trainable parameter.

In the paper, they use a block diagonal matrix with a small size. The small size of the block diagonal matrix greatly reduces the number of trainable parameter. However, the block-diagonal matrix with small size can only transform the weight matrix with a small size.

In the paper, there is a block diagonal matrix with size 4. The block diagonal matrix can only transform a weight matrix with size 4x4. If we want to transform a weight matrix with a larger size, we need to use a block diagonal matrix that has a larger size. For example, if we want to transform a 64x64 weight matrix, we need to use 16 block diagonal matrices. Each block diagonal matrix has a size of 4x4. The total number of trainable parameters is 16*4*4=256. This is a lot of trainable parameters. If we want to finetune a 512x512 weight matrix, we need 32 block diagonal matrices. The total number of parameters is 32*4*4=512. This is a lot. If we want to use a block diagonal matrice with a size of 64x64 to transform a 512x512 matrix, we need 256 block diagonal matrices. The number of trainable paramters is 256*4*4=4096. This is a lot.

In the paper, each block diagonal matrix is used to transform only one part of the weight matrix. For example, in the paper, there is one block diagonal matrix with size of 4x1. This block diagonal matrix is used only to transform the first column of the weight matrix. There is another block diagonal matrix with size or 4x1. It's used only to transform the second column of the weight matrix, and so on. This is a good strategy to reduce the number of parameter. However, it's hard to use this strategy to transform a large weight matrix. For example. If
