--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

1. What is parameter-efficient finetuning?

Parameter-efficient finetuning is a method to finetune the pretrained model with a small number of trainable parameters. It is a kind of finetuning method that is different from the traditional finetuning method. The traditional finetuning method usually uses all the parameters of the pretrained model as the initial parameters of the finetuned model. In contrast, parameter-efficient finetuning only uses a small number of trainable parameter to finetune the model. It can significantly reduce the number of trainable parameters, which is very important for the models with a large number of parameters.

2. Why do we need parameter-efficient finetuning

The number of trainable parameters in the pretrained model is usually very large. For example, the number of trainable parameters in GPT-3 is 175B. If we use all the parameters of the GPT-3 as the initial parameters of a finetuned model, the number of trainable parameter will be 175B. It is too many. If we want to finetune a lot of models, the number of trainable paramters will be very large. It will bring a lot of problems, such as the problem of memory and the problem of training cost. Parameter-efficient finetuning can solve these problems well. It can significantly reduce number of trainable parameters, so that we can finetune a lot models without causing too much problems.

3. How does parameter-efficient finetuning work

Parameter-efficient finetuning usually works by adding a small number of trainable linear layers on top of the pretrained model. The linear layers are usually very simple. They usually only have one linear layer without any nonlinear activation. The input of the linear layer is the output of the pretrained model, and the output of the linear layer is used as the prediction result. The linear layers are used to finetune the prediction result of the pretrained model. By finetuning the prediction result, the performance of the pretrained model can be improved.

4. Why does parameter-efficient finetune work

I think there are two reasons. The first reason is that the pretrained model is usually trained in a way that it can perform well in the training set, but it may not perform well in the test set. The second reason is that the performance of the pretrained models usually declines with the increase of the sequence length. By finetuning on the test set, the performance of the model in the test set can be improved. In addition, the performance of the models usually declines with the decrease of the data scale. By finetuning, the performance can be improved even if the data scale is small.

5. How to make parameter-efficient finetuning more efficient

There are many ways to make parameter-efficient finitunig more efficient. One way is to use a small number of trainable paramters. Another way is to use a simple linear layer. In the paper "Parameter-Efficent Orthogonal Finetuning", the authors propose a new way to make parameter-efficient finetting more efficient. They propose a new method called "Orthogonal Finetuning". In the orthogonal finetuning, the linear layer is replaced by a block of weight-shared fully connected layers. Each fully connected layer in the block shares the same set of weights. The shared weights are initialized by a matrix factorization. The matrix factorization is usually a low-rank matrix factorization. The low-rank matrix factorizaion can significantly reduce the number or trainable parameters. In addition, the fully connected layers in the block are usually normalized by an orthogonal transformation. The orthogonal transformation can significantly improve the generalization of the model.

6. What is the difference between parameter-efficient finetuning and model-agnostic meta-learning (MAML)

MAML is also a kind of parameter-efficient finetuning. It usually uses a small number of parameters to finetune the initialization parameters of a model. After being finetuned, the initialization parameters can be used to quickly finetune a task-specific model. In contrast, the parameter-efficient finetuning usually uses a small number or parameters to directly finetune the model.

7. What is the difference bewteen parameter-efficient finetuning an pretrained transformer and a pretrained CNN

In the parameter-efficient finetunig of a pretrained transformer, we usually add a block of weight-shared linear layers on top of it. In the parameter-efficient finetunning of a pretrained CNN, we usually add a few fully connected layers on top of it.

8. What is the difference betweeen parameter-efficient finetuning a pretrained language model and a pretrained vision model

In the parameter-efficient fintunig of a pretrained language model, we usually add a small number of linear layers on top of i. In the parameter-efficient fintunug of a pretrained vision model, we usually add some linear layers and some nonlinear layers on top of it.


Popular posts from this blog

What is the difference between CTC loss and cross entropy loss

The difference between the C
