--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" introduces Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) to improve parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. What is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" introduces Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) to improve parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. What is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|> the paper, BOFT is a variant of OFT that uses a factorization to reduce the number of trainable parameters. The factorization is based on the orthogonal matrix $Q$ and the diagonal matrix $D$. The orthogonal matrix $Q$ is used to transform the input data into a new coordinate system, while the diagonal matrix $D$ is used to transform it back. The transformation is done by multiplying the input data with $Q$ and then with $D$. The resulting data is then passed through a linear layer to produce the output. The advantage of using a factorization is that it reduces the number of trainable parameters, which can be useful for large models. The disadvantage is that it can make the model less stable, since the transformation is not reversible. In this paper, the authors propose a new factorization that is more stable than the original one. They call this new factorization "Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)" and they show that it can improve the performance of OFT. The main idea behind BOFT is to use a block-diagonal matrix instead of a full orthogonal matrix. This means that the transformation is only applied to a subset of the data, rather than to the entire data. The block-diagonal matrix is then multiplied with the input data to produce the transformed data. The advantage of using block-diagonal matrices is that they are easier to train, since they only need to be trained on a subset of the data. The disadvantage is that they are less stable, since the block-diagonal matrix is not fully orthogonal. In this paper, they show that BOFT can improve the performance of standard OFT. They also show that BOFT can be used to improve the performance of other finetuning methods, such as the block-diagonal approach. The results show that BOFT can significantly improve the performance of OFTs, especially when the number of parameters is small. However, the authors do not provide any theoretical justification for why BOFT works better than the original OFT. In this paper, we provide such a justification. We show that BOFT is equivalent to a special case of the block-diagonal approach, which is known to be stable. We also show that BOFT is more stable than the block-diagonal approach in general. To see why BOFT is equivalent to the block-diagonal approach and why it is more stable, we first need to understand the block-diagonal approach better. The block-diagonal approach is a way to finetune a model by adding a small number of additional layers to the end of the model. The idea is to add a small number of layers to the end of a model, such that the final layer has the same number of parameters as the original model. This allows us to finetune the model without changing the number of parameters. The block-diagonal method is a special case of the general block-diagonal approach, where we only add a small number of additional blocks to the end of the network. The block-diagonal block is a block that is added to the end of the original network. It is a block that is similar to the original block, but it has fewer parameters. The block-diagonals are added to the end of each layer of the network, so that the final layer has a similar number of parameters to the original layer. The block-diagonal blocks are added in a way that ensures that the final layer has exactly the same number of parameters. This ensures that the final layer is the same size as the original layer. The advantage of the block-diagonal method is that it is easy to implement and it does not require any additional training data. The disadvantage of the block-diagonal block is that it is not as stable as the original block. This means that the block-diagonal block may not work well for all models. To see why BOF is equivalent to the block diagonal approach, we need to understand how the block-diagonal approach works. The block-diagonal<|endoftext|>
