--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective method for finetuning pretrained diffusion models. It is provably information-preserving, and empirically performs better than existing finetuning methods. OFT finetunes a pretrained diffusion model by learning an orthogonal transformation for each neuron, which preserves the pairwise inner products of the neurons. As a result, OFT finetuning does not change the geometry of the neuron space and thus preserves important structural information of the pretrained model. To finetune a pretrained diffusion model, OFT optimizes an orthogonal matrix for each neuron by minimizing the reconstruction error of the text embedding. We demonstrate the effectiveness of OFT in finetuning large-scale text-to-image diffusion models, including Stable Diffusion v1.5, Stable Diffusion v2.0, and Stable Diffusion v2.X, on various downstream tasks, including classification, generation, and segmentation. On the task of classification, OFT finetuned models achieve accuracy levels comparable to those of frozen pretrained models and significantly higher than those of finetuned models trained from scratch or using LoRA. On the task of generation, OFT generates more realistic and diverse images than existing finetuning and additive methods. On the task of semantic segmentation, OFT segmen- tation predictions are more accurate and have higher agreement with human annotators than those of finetuning and additive baselines. In addition to text-to-image diffusion models. OFT is also effective in finetuning natural image diffusion models, including Stable diffusion v1.5 and Stable diffusion v2.0. Code is available at https://github.com/google-research/orthogonal_finetuning.

pdf | slides | code | paper

Controlling Text-to-Video Diffusion by Orthogonal Fine-Tuning

We present a novel method for finetuning text-to-video diffusion models, Orthogonal Fine-Tuning (OFT), that preserves crucial geometric properties of the pretrained model. OFT finetunings a pretrained diffusion model by optimizing an orthogonal transformation for each layer, which preserves the pairwise angles between neurons. As a result. OFT finetuning preserves the pairwise angles between the neurons in each layer, which is crucial for preserving the geometric structure of the pretrained model. We demonstrate the effectiveness OFT in finetunning text-to-video diffusion models. On the task of video classification, OFT finentuned models achieve accuracy levels similar to those of frozen pretrained model and significantly higher than those fo finetuned and additive baselines. On the task of generatoin, OFT generates more realisitc and diverse videos than existing finetuning, additive, and iterative baselines. On the tasks of segmentation and pose estimation, OFT performs better than finetuning and additive baseline. Code is available at github.com/google-research/ortho- gonal_finetuning.

pdf slides code paper

Controlling Text-Image Diffusion by Finetuning with Orthogonal Transformations

We present a novel finetuning method for text-image diffusion models, Orthogonal Transformation Finetuning (OTFT), that preserves the pairwise angles between text neurons. OTFT finetunes a pretrained text-image diffusion model by optimizing an orthonormal matrix for each layer, which preservs the pairwise angles between the text neurons. As a result of finetuning with OTFT, the pairwise angles between the image neurons in each layer are also preserved. We demonstrate the effectiveness OTFT in finetuning text-image diffusion models. On the tasks of classification and generation, OTFT finetuned models perform better than finetuning, additive LoRA, and iterative baselines.

pdf slides code paper<|endoftext|>
