--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning method that can be applied to any pretrained text-to-image diffusion model. It finetunes the pretrained model in an orthogonal manner such that the pretrained representation geometry is preserved. OFT finetunes the pretrained text-to-image diffusion models in an orthogonal manner suchthat the pretrained representation geometry is well preserved. OFT finets the pretrained text-to-image diffusions models in an orthogonal manner, such that the pretrained representationgeometry is well preserved. OFTs the pretrained text-to-image difussion models in an orthogonal manner,such that the pretrained representation geometryis well preserved. OFTs th pretrained text-to-image difusion models in an orthogonal manner ,such that the pretrained representation geometryi well preserved. OFTs t pretrained text-to-image diffusion models in an orthogonal manner s,uch that the pretrained representationgeometryis well preserved. OFTsthe pretrained text-to-image diffussion models in an orthogonal maner,such that the pretrained representatiogeometryis well preserved. The paper presents a novel method for adaptin diffusion models, Orthogonal FineTuning (OFT), whic preserves crucial geometric properties of neuron unlike stand finetuning or additive method like LoRA. OFT is a simple yet effective fntuning method that can be applie to any pretrained text-to-im diffusion model. OFT finetun the pretrained text-to-image dffusion models in an orthogonal manersuch that the pretrained representatoingeometryis well preserved. OFFTs the pretrained text-to-im diffusion models in an orthogonalmanner,such that the pretrained represenationgeometryis well preserved. OFTs the pretrained text-to-im dffusion models in a orthogonal manner,such that t pretrained representationgeometryis well preservd. OFTs the pretrained t-to-image difussion models i an orthogonal manner,such t the pretrained representationgeometryis wll preservd. OFTsthe pretraind text-to-image difussion model in an orthogonal manner,su that the pretrained representatioongeometryis well preserv. OFTs the pretraind text-to-im difussion model in an orthogonall manner,such that the pretraind representatioongeometryis wll preservd. OFTs the pretrined text-to-im difussion models in an orthogonal manner,such that the prtrined representatioongeometryis wel preservd. OFts the pretrined text-t-to-image difussion models int an orthogonall maner,such that t pretrined representatioongeometriis wel preservd.
The paper presents a novel method fo adaptin diffusion models, Othogonal FineTuning (OF), which preserves crucial geometric properites of neurons unlike stand finetuning o additive method like LoRA OFT is a simple y effecive fntuning method that c be applied to any pretrined text-to-image dffusio model. OFT finets t pretrined text-to-geometriis wel presevd. OFts the pretraind text-t-to-image difusion models int an orthogonal manner, such that the pretrined representatiooongeometryis wel preservd. OFts the prtrined text-t-to-im difussion models int an othogonall manner,su that the pretrined represenatiooongeometryis wll presevd. OFTs the prtrined text-to-image difussion moels in an orthogonll manner,such that the ptrined representatiooongeometriis wel preservd.
The paper presents a novel method fo adaptin diffusion model, Orthogonal FineTunin (OFT), which preservs crucial geometric properites of neuron unlike stand fineteunin or additiv method like LoRA OFTs the pretrine text-to-image difussion modls in an orthogonl manner,such that the preservd. OFt the pretrined textto-image difussion modls int an orthogonl maner,such that th presevd. OFt the pretraind textto-image difussion models in a orthogonl manner, such that the preservd.
The pper presents a novel method for adaptin diffusion model, Othogonal FineTuinin (OFT), which presevs crucial geometric properites of neurn unlike stand fineteun or additiv method lik LoRA OFTs the prtrine text-to-image diffusio modls in an orthgonal manner,such that th prevevd. OFt the prtrined textto-image diffusio modl in an orthgonal maner,such that tha presevd. OFft the pretrined textt-to-image diffusio model in an orthgonal mnaer,such that tha preservd. OFft the pretraind textt-to-image diffussio model in an orthogonal maner
