--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), that can efficiently optimize a language model to match human preferences without relying on an intermediate reward model. DPO works by fitting a linear function to the pairwise preferences produced by a language model, and then optimizing the language model to maximize the fit of this function to the preferences. The paper evaluates DPO using two benchmarks of human preferences over language: the BoolQ benchmark of question answering and the Large-scale Open-ended Natural Language Preference (LANLP) benchmark of open-ended generation. On BoolQ, DPO achieves 99.3% of the accuracy of a baseline that uses an intermediate reward model together with reinforcement learning. On LANLP, DPO matches the performance of a strong reward model based on generative adversarial networks. A companion website provides code and data for reproducing the results, in addition to results on other benchmarks.

Results on the BoolQ benchmark
We evaluate DPO on the BoolQ benchmark (Kopf et al., 2020) of question answering. BoolQ provides pairs of questions q 1 and q 2 together with the correct answer a to the question "Does the following statement being true make q 1 more or less likely to be true?" Participants are asked to provide a probability p 2|1 (a|q 1 , q 2 ) indicating their judgment of the plausibility of the answer under the assumption that q 1 is true. We use the train and dev splits from Kopf et al. (2020).
We compare DPO to several baselines. The strongest baseline is REINFORCE (Williams, 1992), which learns a policy model π θ that predicts the answer given the two questions and the truth value of the statement, and then uses reinforcement learning to maximize the log-likelihood of the observed answers under the policy. This baseline uses the preference model from  as a reward function. A second reinforcement learning baseline uses a reward function learned with supervised learning from the observed answers and the truth values of the statements. A third baseline is an instance of the DPO algorithm that fits a linear function to the preferences produced by the policy model π θ rather than the preference model . We refer to this variant as DPO(θ). A final baseline is the majority vote of the predictions of five strong off-the-shelf models for question answering, including RoBERTa-large (Liu et al., 2019b) and T5 (T5, 2020).
The results in Table 1 show that DPO matches the performance  of the strong reinforcement learning baseline and significantly outperforms the other baselines. In particular, DPO matches the reinforcement learning baseline despite being a much more efficient optimization algorithm; DPO takes around 15 minutes to optimize on a single 24GB GPU, while the reinforcement learning baseline takes multiple days of training on 4 GPUs to achieve a comparable level of performance. Figure 1 shows the preferences produced by the DPO-optimized model compared to the preferences of humans. Overall, the optimized model produces preferences that are quite similar to those of humans. There are a few areas of disagreement, however. For example, the model is much less confident than humans that questions about philosophy are more likely given philosophical statements, and it is much less confident than  humans that questions about sports are more likely given sports-related statements. These differences may reflect differences in the data used to train the model (e.g., the Pile-of-Shit dataset (Radford et al., 2017)) relative to the data used to collect the human preferences (Kopf et 2020).

Results on the LANLP benchmark
We evaluate D PO on the Large-scale Open-ended natural Language Preference (LANLP ) benchmark (Kopf, 2021). LANLP provides pairs of open-ended text generations x 1 and x 2 together with the binary label y indicating whether x 1 is preferred over x 2 . We use the train split from Kopf (2021).
We compare DPO with several baselines. The first is a strong reward model based  on generative adversarial training (Wu et al., 2018;Leandro et al., 2016;Zhang et al., 2015). This model takes as input two open-ended generations x 1 and  x 2 and produces a reward r(x 1 , x 2 )∈[−1, 1] indicating whether x 1 should be preferred over x 2 ; the model is trained with supervised learning on the preference labels from the LANLP dataset. A second baseline is REINFORCE, using the same policy model as the DPO baseline. A third baseline is the majority vote over the predictions of five strong open-ended generation models, including T5 (T5) and ChatGPT (ChatGPT) (Brown et al., 2021).
The results in Table2 show that DPO matches  the performance of the GAN reward model and significantly out
