--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), that can efficiently optimize a language model to match human preferences without relying on an intermediate reward model. DPO works by fitting a linear function to the pairwise preferences produced by a language model, and then optimizing the language model to maximize the fit of this function to the preferences. The paper evaluates DPO using two benchmarks of human preferences over language: the BoolQ benchmark of question answering and the Large-scale Open-ended Natural Language Preference (LANLP) benchmark of open-ended generation. On BoolQ, DPO achieves 99.3% of the accuracy of a baseline that uses an intermediate reward model together with reinforcement learning. On LANLP, DPO matches the performance of a strong reward model based on generative adversarial networks. A companion website provides code and data for reproducing the results, in addition to results on other benchmarks.

Results on the BoolQ benchmark
We evaluate DPO on the BoolQ benchmark (Kopf et al., 2020) of question answering. BoolQ provides pairs of questions q 1 and q 2 together with the correct answer a to the question "Does the following statement being true make q 1 more or less likely to be true?" Participants are asked to provide a probability p 2|1 (a|q 1 , q 2 ) indicating their judgment of the plausibility of the answer under the assumption that q 1 is true. We use the train and dev splits from Kopf et al. (2020).
We compare DPO to several baselines. The strongest baseline is REINFORCE (Williams, 1992), which learns a policy model π θ that predicts the answer given the two questions and the truth value of the statement, and then uses reinforcement learning to maximize the log-likelihood of the observed answers under the policy. This baseline uses the preference model from  as a reward function. A second reinforcement learning baseline uses a reward function learned with supervised learning from the observed answers and the truth values of the statements. In addition to these reinforcement learning baselines, we include two alternatives that do not require an intermediate reward model. The first alternative is to train a logistic regression model that directly predicts the preferences p 2|1 . This approach is unable to take advantage of the language model probabilities provided by the pre-trained LLM, and so we use a small (2M parameters) multilayer perceptron (MLP) for this purpose. The second alternative is to use DPO to optimize the language model to match the preferences produced by the reward model from . We refer to this variant as "DPO( )". Overall, our results show that DPO is able to learn the preferences produced by the RE-INFORCE baseline with almost no additional loss in performance, while avoiding the need for reinforcement learning and the construction of a reward model.

Results on the LANLP benchmark
We evaluate D PO on the Large-scale Open-ended Na-tural Language Preference (LANLP, Wang et al., 2022) benchmark of open-ended generative language modeling. The LANLP benchmark provides pairs of prompts x 1 and x 2 together with the preference label y ∈ {more_likely, less_likely}. Participants are asked to generate an utterance a 1 under the prompt x 1 and an utterance a 2 under the prompt x 2 , and then provide a judgment of the plausability of the statement "the utterance produced under x 1 is more likely than the utterance produced under x2" with a probability in the range [0, 1]. We use the train and valid sets from Wang et al. (2022).
We compare DPO with several baselines. The first baseline is a simple majority vote over generations produced by a pre-trained LLM. This baseline is included to provide a lower bound on performance, since it does not use any training signal beyond the raw likelihoods produced by the LLM on the validation set. A second baseline is generated by fine-tuning the LLM on the LANLP dataset using maximum likelihood objective. This baseline is included since it is a strong method for training generative language models (e.g. Radford et al. (2019); Min et al. (2021); Wang et al. (2018Wang et al. ( , 2022. However, fine-tuning does not take preference information into account, and so is not able to exploit the training signal provided by the LANLP dataset. A third baseline is DPO using the reward model from  as the preference model. This baseline is included in order to show that the preference model from  can be used with DPO to produce results comparable to fine-tuning. In addition to these method that use preference information, we include two strong baselines that do not. The first of these is fine-tuning the LLLM on the LANLP dataset. The second is a generative adversarial network (GAN, Goodfellow et al. (2014))
