In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners appealed from a decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals after the immigration judge denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion’s factual background describes Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons as being from Bogota, Colombia.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after a woman from San Bernardo told Jimenez she had not received rent for over a year, she asked him to speak with the tenant about restitution and leaving the property.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the property had previously belonged to the tenant, the client’s ex-husband, and it was transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion stated that the group of narco-trafficking guerrillas led by Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, also known as “Don Rafa,” and discovered during Jimenez’s tenant negotiations was politically aligned with Gustavo Petro.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", during Jimenez’s visit to a property in San Bernardo, Colombia, the third floor of the property had been sealed off by the health department.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Jimenez had already received threats related to his political activity and his work in Colombia, two men later held him at gunpoint while he was working at the furniture factory at night and told him to leave the neighborhood.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after an employee at Petitioners’ furniture factory said that Petitioners were traveling, the two men left without harming anyone else.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when Jimenez saw a man as his younger son was leaving school, the man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the threats at the furniture factory and while describing later harassment of his family, Jimenez said he saw a man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder as the child was leaving his school.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Jimenez saw a man approach his younger son as the boy exited school and put his hand over the boy’s mouth, the man told the boy to run to your dad.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners appealed the BIA’s denial of their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, and they argued that the BIA wrongly found they had not established that their past persecution was based on their political opinion.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion quotes Wiransane v. Ashcroft for the proposition that persecution under the INA is not limited to threats alone and must entail more than just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court reviewed the BIA’s determination that Petitioners had not shown the level of mistreatment needed for relief under the INA, and their harm, even when considered in the aggregate, failed to amount to past persecution.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds, and besides their shared political opinion, they identified a particular social group.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion states that the BIA did not err in finding the threats were predominantly motivated by Jimenez’s professional and personal involvement with Don Rafa rather than by Petitioners’ political opinion.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court held that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to the main reason for harm.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners argued that even if they could not establish past persecution, they had a well-founded fear of future persecution because the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", a single police interaction that does not necessarily show that a government is unable or unwilling to protect a victim is a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners argued that seeking help from the government would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors were closely aligned and associated with the Colombian government.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the asylum analysis of whether safe relocation within Colombia was feasible and reasonable, the record supported that Petitioners could reasonably relocate to another part of Colombia
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate elsewhere, Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live unharmed in Colombia.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", because Petitioners failed to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily failed to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", before the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed, the adjudicator who denied the petitioners’ applications for asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture was the immigration judge.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the immigration judge denied the petitioners’ applications for asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture, the denial was affirmed by the Board of Immigration Appeals
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", before the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, the petitioners said that the adjudicatory body that denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal erred, namely the BIA
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", In the Tenth Circuit's opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after the immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals denied the petitioners' applications for asylum and withholding of removal, the court said their alleged persecution lacked a nexus to a statutorily protected ground
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners challenged the denial of asylum and withholding of removal in the Tenth Circuit and failed to demonstrate that the Colombian government is unwilling or unable to help them.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the factual background identifies Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife, and their two minor sons as being from Bogota, Colombia, and Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez's wife was Angelica Parada Duarte
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the family from Bogotá, Colombia, had collectively been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons had been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported Federico Gutierrez.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners were members of the Colombian Liberal Party who supported Federico Gutierrez in the 2022 Colombian presidential election, and when they went from door to door in local neighborhoods, they were seeking favorable votes
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the factual background states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez began receiving threatening phone calls related to his involvement in the Colombian Liberal Party around the end of May 2022
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", according to the opinion’s factual background, beginning around the end of May 2022, Jimenez received threatening phone calls once or twice a week regarding his involvement in the Liberal Party
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", where Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his family were members of the Colombian Liberal Party and had been receiving threats in Colombia because of that involvement, the opinion states that in early June 2022, after a colleague reported the threats he had received, he was kidnapped and murdered.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez had a provisional law license, and in 2022 when the relevant events took place, he was a law student
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez also worked as an intern for the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez worked as an intern for Colombia’s National Prosecutor’s office, where he helped victims of domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", in June 2022, a woman from San Bernardo requested Jimenez’s help with a property dispute.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Jimenez visited the property in San Bernardo to try to negotiate a property dispute involving a tenant who had not paid rent for more than a year, the client declined to pursue a formal eviction process
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the dispute over the San Bernardo property, the client declined to pursue a formal eviction process and hoped that the tenant would, after learning that a lawyer was intervening, surrender the property
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", during the factual background describing Jimenez’s work as a provisional lawyer in Colombia, he learned that the tenant was actually the client’s ex-husband based on the title to the client’s property.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Jimenez reviewed the title to the client’s property in connection with a property dispute involving a tenant who had not paid rent for over a year, he learned the tenant was the client’s ex-husband.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez learned that a property involved in his client’s dispute had been transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement and that the ex-husband previously owned the property
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez investigated a property in Colombia and learned that it had been closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Jimenez investigated a property in Colombia in connection with a client’s dispute, he learned that the property had been closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants and a base for narco-trafficking and prostitution.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Jimenez learned that the property had been used for narco-trafficking and prostitution and was affiliated with reports of kidnapping and murder, the opinion stated that law enforcement had attempted several searches and seizures.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez learned that law enforcement had tried several searches and seizures at the property tied to Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, and those efforts were seemingly unsuccessful.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the threatening brochure that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez received at his factory later that month stated, “death to snitches from Liberal Party.”
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", while Jimenez was working at the furniture factory at night, the two men held Jimenez at gunpoint.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez had been working at a furniture factory in Colombia following a threatening brochure, one of the men in a later gunpoint encounter there said Jimenez was responsible for searches and seizures at a property and accused him of being a “snitch” for the prosecutor’s office
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez was later confronted at gunpoint while working at a furniture factory in Colombia, and according to the opinion, one of the men considered Jimenez responsible for the searches and seizures at the property
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men held Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez at gunpoint and told him to leave the neighborhood, Jimenez and his wife locked the factory.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men threatened Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez at gunpoint and he and his wife locked the furniture factory, they thereafter closely monitored their children’s commutes to school.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the time when the same two men returned to the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town was about two months after the death threat.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Petitioners described a series of threats and confrontations in Colombia involving Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his family, about two months after the death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion describes an incident in which, about two months after a death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town and then assaulted a factory employee
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men assaulted a factory employee and took out a gun, they demanded to know where Petitioners were
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when two men returned to Petitioners' furniture factory and threatened to kill them if they were seen again, the men said the order came from Don Rafa.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when two men later returned to the furniture factory while Petitioners were away and asked where Petitioners were, the employee said Petitioners were traveling.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the incident involving Jimenez’s younger son at school, the family moved for three weeks to Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the family stayed at Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside for three weeks following the incident, they decided they would leave for the United States.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez told a police patrol officer in Bogotá about what had happened to his family before they left for the United States, the officer said that nothing could be done
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez told a police patrol officer what had happened to his son, the officer said that police officers were contributing to the problem.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear after they arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, and the delay was Three months
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, the Department of Homeland Security served them with individual Notices to Appear
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the Department of Homeland Security served the Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear, they were charged as removable from the United States pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled, the Department of Homeland Security served them with individual Notices to Appear charging each Petitioner as removable from the United States
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Petitioners were charged as inadmissible and directed removed to Colombia, they applied for asylum and withholding of removal.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal, the minor children proceeded as rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries of Jimenez’s application for asylum.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the Immigration Judge considered Jimenez’s and Duarte’s respective testimony and other evidence in the record, the Immigration Judge denied Petitioners’ applications.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", although the Immigration Judge denied the Petitioners’ applications for asylum and withholding of removal after considering their testimony and other evidence, the IJ found Petitioners to be credible
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", although the Immigration Judge found Petitioners credible, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish that internal relocation was not reasonably available
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Petitioners appealed the IJ’s denial of relief, the adjudicatory body that rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel was The BIA
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the IJ denied Petitioners’ asylum and withholding claims and Petitioners raised due process arguments on appeal to the BIA, they argued the IJ violated their right to counsel.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", petitioners appealed the BIA’s decision denying their applications for relief, and the BIA denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that the BIA erred by finding that they did not establish a well-founded fear of future persecution that the government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court noted that its review can include a consolidated review of asylum claims. It generally has jurisdiction to review final orders of removal
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court said it generally has jurisdiction to review final orders of removal, which can include a consolidated review of asylum claims.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Tenth Circuit explained that its review of the Board’s denial of asylum relief is limited by 8 U.S.C. § 1252(b)(4)(A) to the administrative record on which the order of removal is based.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when a single member of the BIA affirmed the IJ’s decision, the court could still consult the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court described the standard of review for the BIA’s factual findings as one under which the BIA’s findings of fact are conclusive unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", under the substantial-evidence standard, the BIA’s findings of fact are conclusive unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", asylum is described as a discretionary form of relief
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", asylum is described as a discretionary form of relief for eligible noncitizens, and that relief may be granted by the Attorney General
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", because asylum is a discretionary form of relief under 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1), an applicant seeking that discretionary grant of asylum must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that he is a refugee.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion quotes the INA’s definition of a refugee as including a person who is unable or unwilling to return to their country of nationality because of a well-founded fear of persecution.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", one protected ground in the INA’s refugee definition is membership in a particular social group.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the asylum/refugee-status context, one way an applicant may obtain refugee status is through a showing of past persecution.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", a showing of past persecution gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners allege that they suffered physical, psychological, and emotional harm
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners alleged that the physical, psychological, and emotional harm they suffered, along with the noted threats, rose to past persecution.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion quotes the standard for persecution under the INA, which is undefined in the statute, and under that quoted standard, a finding of persecution requires the infliction of suffering or harm upon those who differ (in race, religion, or political opinion) in a way regarded as offensive and must entail more than just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court stated that the cumulative effects of multiple incidents may constitute persecution.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in arguing that certain harms amounted to past persecution, Petitioners asserted that persecution was established by the multiple threats against them
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that the multiple threats against them established persecution.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", threats should be considered when evaluating the mistreatment Petitioners suffered in terms of their overall effect, the cumulative impact of the mistreatment Petitioners suffered.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", at their merits hearing Petitioners conceded that they were not physically harmed
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the Tenth Circuit considered Petitioners’ claim that they had suffered past persecution, Petitioners said in their opening brief that they experienced no lasting physical harm
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", while discussing the standard for proving past persecution in an asylum or withholding context, the Tenth Circuit stated that physical harm is not necessary to satisfy the persecution prong
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the court discussed Petitioners' claimed emotional and psychological harm, Duarte said she is unable to sleep or rest
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", where the petitioners argued that emotional and psychological harm should be considered in the persecution analysis, Duarte testified that her son started having panic attacks and stress.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Tenth Circuit said that the emotional and psychological distress Petitioners claimed from threats was insufficient to rise to the level of persecution, specifically such fears stemming from their received threats
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court said asylum has rarely, if ever, been granted based on threats and emotional or psychological harm alone.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Tenth Circuit cited another case for the point that emotional or psychological harm alone usually does not amount to persecution, and the applicant’s alleged harm in that cited case consisted of a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion concluded that the applicant’s alleged harm—a 10-hour arrest and detention plus threats, described as “physically stressful and psychologically unsettling”—failed to rise to the level of persecution
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument that the court’s case law had rejected asylum applications in cases involving more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the Tenth Circuit cited Chhetri v. Rosen as an example of conduct that was not enough to establish persecution, it noted that the conduct “four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father” did not constitute persecution.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court cited Carias-Mejia v. Garland as an example of a case rejecting a persecution claim, and in that cited case the petitioner's threats with machetes and being robbed six times were still found insufficient to constitute persecution because “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Tenth Circuit reviewed the BIA’s finding that Petitioners’ harm, considered in the aggregate, did not amount to past persecution under the INA and said that the record contained substantial evidence to support the BIA’s finding.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that their harm was on account of protected grounds, including a particular social group, but they did not establish their membership in such a group.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that the nexus requirement was satisfied because they were persecuted by Don Rafa.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Petitioners argued that the nexus requirement was satisfied because Don Rafa persecuted them for their political opinion.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court limited its review to whether Petitioners establish a nexus between their alleged persecution and their political opinion.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court said that to show persecution on account of a protected ground, the applicant must establish that the ground was "at least one central reason" for the persecution, and the protected ground at issue was a political opinion
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in explaining the nexus requirement, Petitioners' political opinion cannot be incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate to another reason for harm
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the court explained the nexus requirement for Petitioners’ political-opinion claim, their political opinion cannot play “a minor role”
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", where the petitioners argued that they were harmed because of political opinion and the court discussed mixed-motive persecution claims, a protected ground in such a mixed-motive case must be a central reason for the inflicted harm.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", in addressing Petitioners’ asylum claim that they were persecuted because of their political opinion, the court held that their political opinion was or will be at least one central reason the persecutors targeted or will target them.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners were undeterred by threatening phone calls
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa and despite threatening phone calls and a fellow campaigner’s death, Petitioners continued their political activities.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Petitioners lacked record evidence tying Don Rafa to those initial politically affiliated threats.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion states that Petitioners began receiving escalated threats after Jimenez got involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Jimenez became involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa, one of the threats directed at him involved a man accusing Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and for being responsible for searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion describes a threat in which a man accused Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and of being responsible for searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion discussing threats made to Petitioners' employees states that the men later said they had been sent by Don Rafa
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the men who had threatened Jimenez and the other petitioners later threatened Petitioners’ employees.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion cites Yuk v. Ashcroft for the rule that a court will not reweigh the evidence when reviewing an IJ’s or the BIA’s decision, and that decision must be supported by substantial evidence
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Tenth Circuit concluded that Petitioners had not shown they were persecuted on account of their political opinion because their political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to the main reason for harm.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners argue that even if they cannot establish past persecution, they still have a well-founded fear of future persecution
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the court described two types of information that weigh heavily in the unable-or-unwilling analysis for assessing a government’s response to persecution, the first type of information was whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to persecution, which looks at evidence about how the government responded to the applicant's past persecution, the second type of information that weighs heavily is whether the government offered protection to the applicant, such as by placing the applicant in protective custody.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in analyzing whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners, the inquiry required that the government have had notice of the alleged persecution
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court discussed an inquiry in the unable-or-unwilling analysis that turns on whether the government had notice of the alleged persecution, and in addition to notice, the government must have had an opportunity to respond.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", without notice of the alleged persecution, there was no way to know how the police would have reacted or whether the government would have helped.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", while discussing the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to alleged persecution, the court said that without notice of the persecution, there is no way to know how the police would have reacted or whether the government would have helped.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the court’s discussion of the unable-or-unwilling analysis, a claim that the government was unable or unwilling to control the persecutors can be undercut, even though it is not necessarily fatal, by a failure to report
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", an applicant may demonstrate that filing a police report would have been futile or dangerous.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", petitioners testified that they spoke to two individual police officers who told them not to seek trouble, and the court said there was nothing to show that those officers’ statements reflected the Colombian government’s position.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", courts often require evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures to prove that a government is ‘unwilling or unable’ to protect its people.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court quoted Osorio-Morales v. Garland for the proposition that evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures is often required to establish the relevant standard of being unwilling or unable
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in discussing whether Petitioners had shown that the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect them, the IJ found that the record did not show Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood or through Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion noted that, in addition to not showing Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood, the record also did not show that Petitioners sought help through Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that, in the context of the government-protection inquiry, contacting the Colombian government for help would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors are closely aligned and associated with the Colombian government.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the court discussed whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners from alleged persecution, it noted that the government was aware of ongoing criminal conduct in connection with the property at issue
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion states that, to address the ongoing criminal conduct at the property at issue, the government had attempted several searches and seizures
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners claimed that contacting the Colombian government for help would have been futile or dangerous because they argued their persecutors were closely aligned with the government and would be unwilling or unable to stop the persecutors.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that their persecutors were closely aligned with the Colombian government and that the government would be unwilling or unable to stop the persecutors.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court cited Chhetri for the proposition that an applicant’s failure to contact the police did not establish governmental inability or unwillingness to protect him, and in that cited case the applicant believed the persecutors were part of the government.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court agreed that Petitioners cannot establish a well-founded fear of future persecution for the purposes of asylum.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the government tries to rebut an asylum applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution by showing a change in circumstances, it must show a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", in discussing when the government can rebut an asylum applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution, the opinion states that one way the applicant could avoid future persecution in his or her home country is that the applicant could avoid future persecution by relocating to another part of the applicant’s country.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", in discussing the Petitioners’ asylum claim and whether they could reasonably relocate within Colombia, the opinion states that the Petitioners have not demonstrated a fear of future persecution
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", while discussing that Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live in Colombia unharmed, the court noted that Jimenez’s father still works for the criminal justice system.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Petitioners argued that they could reasonably relocate within Colombia, the record reflects that before they decided to relocate to the United States, they safely lived with Jimenez’s mother
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in assessing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for three weeks before deciding to relocate to the United States.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when addressing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the court noted that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", when discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the opinion stated that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood, but they did not threaten the family to move out of the country
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court said Petitioners could mitigate any potential for future persecution by safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s findings that Petitioners do not qualify for asylum.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court says there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s finding that the petitioners do not qualify for asylum
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the opinion explains that the petitioners do not qualify for asylum and therefore also fail to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal because they fail to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution.
In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners argued that relocation in Colombia was unworkable because of administrative and economic burdens.
According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners argued that relocation within Colombia was unworkable for several reasons, including administrative and economic burdens and the country’s judicial infrastructure, and they also claimed that their persecutors had ties to the president of Colombia.
