--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is commonly used in the design of fast linear transforms. BOFT is a straightforward extension of OFT, which is a parameter-efficient finemapping technique that is based on orthogonal matrices. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been widely used in the design of efficient linear transforms. BOFT can be viewed as a generalization of OFT, which was introduced as a parameter-efficient finetune technique that is based on block-diagonal orthogonal matrices. BOFT and OFT are both orthogonal finetuning techniques that are designed to be parameter-efficient. BOFT and OFTs are both orthogonal finetunes that are designed to be efficient in terms of parameters. BOFT and OFTS are both orthogonal finetune techniques that are designed to have a low number of trainable parameters. BOFT and the OFT are both orthogonal fine-tuning techniques that are designed with the goal of minimizing the number of trainable parameters. The butterfly structure is a well-known technique for constructing sparse matrices, and it is also a well-known technique for creating sparse matrices. BOFT is able to achieve a parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of the block-diagonal OFT, while at the same time, it is able to maintain the same level of orthogonality as the original OFT. BOFT is able, in contrast to OFT, to maintain the orthogonality of the original OFT. The butterfly structure is well-known for its ability to create sparse matrices, and it has also been used to create sparse matrices. BOFT achieves a parameter efficiency that is on par with that of the block-diagonally structured OFT, while at once maintaining the same level of orthgonality as the original OFTs. BOFT is able maintain the orthogonlity of the original OFT, whereas OFT is not able to do so. BOFT is able achieve a parameter efficiency that matches that of the block-diagnoal OFT, while at one time maintaining the same level of orthogonal as the original OFT.

The butterfly structure is a well-established technique for creating sparse matrices, and it also has the ability to create sparse matrices. The butterfly structure is able to create sparse matrices. In the context of the butterfly structure, the parameter efficiency of BOFT is comparable to that of OFT, which uses block-diagonal matrices. BOFT is capable of maintaining the same level of sparsity as OFT, while at simultaneously maintaining the same level of parameter efficiency as OFT. BOFT can maintain the same level of sparseness as OFT, while also maintaining the same level of efficiency in terms of parameters as OFT. BOft is able to maintain the sparsity of OFT, while at maintaining the same level of efficieny in terms of parameters as the OFT. BOFT and OFTB are both orthogonal finetunings that are designed to be both parameter-efficient and orthogonal. BOFT and OFBT are both orthogonal finetuns that are designed to be simultaneously both parameter-efficient and orthogonal.

The butterfly structure is well-known as a technique for creating sparse matrices and is also well-known for its ability for creating sparse matrices. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix. BOFT is able create a sparse matrix that is comparable to the sparsity of the butterfly matrix. BOFT is capable to create a sparse matrix that has the same level of sparcity as the butterfly matrix. BOft is able create a sparse matirx that has the same level sparsity as the butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrix is well-known for its sparsity, and it is also well-known for being able to create sparse matrices.

BOFT is able to create a sparse matrix with the same level of sparity as the butterfly matrix. In the context of BOFT, the parameter efficiency is comparable to that of block-diagonal OFT. BOFT has the same level of parameter efficieny as the block-diagonal OFTs. BOFT and OFB are both orthogonal finetunning techniques that are designed to both be parameter-efficient and orthogonal. The butterfly matrix is able to create sparse matrix, and it is also able to create sparse matrices, BOFT is able to create sparse matirx that is comparable to the level of sparsity of the butterfly matirx. BOFT is able able to create a sparse matirix that has the same level as sparsity as the butterfly matirix. BOFT is able capable to create a sparse matix that has the same sparsity as the butterfly matriix. BOFT is capable able to create a sparse matriix that has the same ssparsity as the butterfly mattrix. BOFT is a method for finetuning that is based on the orthogonal butterfly matrix, and it is able to create a matrix that is sparse. BOFT is a finetuning method that is based on the orthgonal butterfly matrix, and it can create a sparse
