--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on butterfly structures. The butterfly structure is a well-known data structure that is used in many applications, including fast Fourier transforms. The BOFT method is parameter-efficient because it uses a butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters. The butterfly structure is used to construct a sparse matrix, which is then used to define a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix. The BOFT method can be used to finetune large models, such as vision transformers, language models, and text-to-image diffusion models. The BOFT method has been shown to be more parameter-efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal variant. The BOFT method also has a smaller memory footprint than OFT and its variants. The BOFT method achieves comparable or better performance than OFT and its variations on a variety of tasks, including image classification, object detection, and natural language processing. The BOFT method outperforms OFT and its block diagonal variants in terms of parameter efficiency. The BOFT method's performance is evaluated on a variety of tasks. The BOFT method was evaluated on the ImageNet classification task using the EfficientNet-B7 model. The BOFT method achieved a 0.2% top-1 error rate on ImageNet, which is comparable to the OFT method. The BOFT method performed better than the OFT method on the COCO object detection task. The BOFT method improved the performance of the T2I-70B model on the CLIP-visual-RL task, achieving a 0.4% improvement in the CLIP-visual-joint embedding metric. The BOFT method performs well on the GLUE benchmark for natural language processing. The results show that the BOFT method is more parameter-efficient than the OFT method. In addition, the BOFT method has a smaller memory footprint. The BOFT method uses a sparse matrix to construct a block-diagonal orthogonal transformation matrix. The sparse matrix is constructed using a butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of sparse matrices. The sparse matrices are constructed using a sparse matrix factorization method. The sparse matrix factorization method is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that is constructed using the butterfly structure. The sparse matrix factor is constructed using the butterfly matrix. The sparse matrix factor can be used to construct a block-diagonally sparse matrix. The block-diagonally sparse matrices are used to construct a block diagonal orthogonal matrix. The block diagonal orthogonal matrix is used to perform orthogonal finetuning. The orthogonal finetuning method is used to finetune the large model. The orthogonal finetuned model is used to perform downstream tasks. The orthogonal finetune method is used to finitely tune the large model. The finitely tuned model is used to perform the downstream task. The finitely tuning method is used to finitley tune the large model.<|endoftext|>
