--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it can help you.

1. What is parameter-efficient finetuning?

Parameter-efficient finetuning is a kind of finetuning method. It is parameter-efficient because it can reduce the number of trainable parameters. It is a kind of finituning because it is used for finetuning models.

2. Why do we need parameter-efficient finetuning

We need parameter-efficient finetunig because we want to finetune models without increasing the number of trainable parameters.

3. What is the problem of parameter-efficient finetuning.

The problem of parameter-efficient finitunig is how to reduce the number of trainable parameter without losing performance.

4. How to solve the problem of parameter-efficient

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning" proposes a solution to the problem. It uses a factorization trick to reduce the number of parameters.

5. What is the factorization trick

The factorization trick is to multiply a matrix with a low-rank matrix to get a full-rank matrix. For example, we can multiply a 64x64 matrix with a 2x2 low-rank matrix to generate a 64x64 full-rank matrix.

6. How does the factorization trick work in parameter-efficient finetuning (POFT)

POFT uses the factorization trick to generate a weight matrix with less trainable parameters. It first generates a weight matrix with a low-ratio and then multiplies it with a learnable matrix to get a full rank weight matrix.

7. How to generate a weight matrix

POFT uses orthogonal transformation to generate a weight matrix. It first generates a matrix with shape (batch_size, num_layers, num_units, num_units) and then uses the matrix to transform a zero matrix with shape (batch_siz, num_layers, num_unit, num_units).

8. How to multiply a low-rank matrix and a full-rank matrix

We can use matrix multiplication to multiply a low-rang matrix and a full-rang matrix. The result is a full-rank matrix.

9. How to make the low-rank matrix learnable

We can add a learnable bias to the low-rank matrix. The learnable bias is also a matrix with the same shape as the low-rank matrix.

10. How to use POFT to finetune a pretrained model

We can use POFT to replace the weight matrix of a pretrained model. We only need to change the forward pass of the model. The backward pass remains the same.

11. How to choose the rank of the low-rank matrix

The paper suggests that we can choose the rank based on the number of trainable parameters we want to allow. For example, if we want to allow 1% of the parameters to be trainable, we can set the rank to be 99.

12. How to choose the learnable bias

The paper suggests that the learnable bias should have a small magnitude. It also suggests that we can set the learnable bias to be identity matrix at the beginning of finetuning.

13. How to choose the learning rate of the learnable bias

POFT uses a separate learning rate for the learnable bias. The paper suggests that we can set a small learning rate for the learnability bias.

14. How to choose the number of training epoch

The paper suggests that POFT needs fewer training epoch than other finetuning methods.

15. How to choose the batch size

The paper suggests that a small batch size can help POFT converge faster.

16. How to choose the momentum

The paper suggests that using a small momentum can help POFT converge fast.

17. How to choose the training iteration

The paper suggests that for a long sequence prediction task, we can use a small training iteration. For a short sequence prediction task, we may use a large training iteration.

18. How to evaluate the performance of POFT

The paper suggests that in addition to the common evaluation metrics, we can also evaluate the generalization ability of a model. One way to evaluate the generalization ability is to use held-out data to finetune the model.

19. How to accelerate the training of POFT

The original POFT paper uses the Adam optimizer. It may be slow to train. The paper "Accelerating Parameter-Efficient Finetuning with Low-Rank Orthogonal Updates" proposes to use the LRO (Low-rank Orthogonal) update to accelerate the training of the POFT.

20. How to use the LRO update

The LRO update is simple. We just need to replace the orthogonal matrix with a low-rang orthogonal matrix. We can generate a low-rank orthogonal matrix with the Cayley transform.

21. How to choose the ratio

The ratio is the ratio of the number of the parameter in the low-rank matrix and the number of the parameter of the orthogonal matrix. The paper suggests that a small ratio can help the training converge fast.

22. How to choose the dimension of the low-rank
