--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly architecture. BOFT is a parameter-efficient adaptation technique that is based on a butterfly network structure. The butterfly network is a well-known network topology that is used in signal processing and communications. BOFT is a novel approach for orthogonal finetuning that is parameter-efficient. BOFT is a new approach for orthogonal finetuing that is parameter-efficient. The BOFT technique is based on the butterfly network, which is a well-known network architecture in signal processing and communications.

The butterfly network is a well-established network topology in signal processing and communications.
The butterfly network is a widely used network topology in signal processing. The butterfly network is an efficient network topology that is used for signal processing. The butterfly structure is a well-known network structure in signal processing. The BOFT technique uses the butterfly network to improve parameter efficiency. BOFT is a method for orthogonal finetuning with improved parameter efficiency. BOFT uses the butterfly network to increase parameter efficiency. BOFT improves parameter efficiency by using the butterfly network. BOFT is a technique for orthogonal finetuning and parameter efficiency that is based on the use of the butterfly network. BOft is a technique for orthogonal fine-tuning that is based on the usage of the butterfly network. The butterfly network is used to improve parameter efficiency in BOFT. BOFT is a finetuning technique that uses the butterfly network to enhance parameter efficiency. BOFT employs the butterfly network to improve the parameter efficiency of orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is a type of orthogonal finetuning that uses the butterfly network in order to improve parameter efficiency. The butterfly network is utilized by BOFT to improve parameter efficiency. In BOFT, the butterfly network is used to enhance parameter efficiency. The butterfly structure is used by BOFT to improve the parameter efficiency in orthogonal finetuning. The butterfly network is employed by BOFT to improve its parameter efficiency. BOFT makes use of the butterfly network to improve its parameter efficiency.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient finit
The butterfly network is used by BOFT in order to improve its parameter efficiency.
BOFT is a parameter efficient finetuning technique that makes use of the butterfly structure. BOFT is a kind of orthogonal finetuning technique that employs the butterfly network in order for it to be parameter efficient. BOFT is a form of orthogonal finetuning in which the butterfly network is used in order to improve its efficiency. BOFT is an orthogonal finetuning technique in which the butterfly network improves its parameter efficiency. BOft is a parameter efficient finit technique that makes use of a butterfly network. BOFT uses the Butterfly network to improve its parameter effici BOFT is a parameter efficient orthogonal finetuning technique tha employs the butterfly network. BOFO is a parameter efficient orthogonal fine tuning techniqu that uses the butterfly network. BOF is a parameter efficient orthogonal finte tuning technique that uses the butterfly netwo BOFT is a parameter efficien orthogonal finetuning technique tht employs the butterfly network. The BOFT technique i a parameter efficient orthogonal finit technique that uses the butterfly n BOFT is a parameter efficie orthogonal finetuning technique t that uses the butterfly network BOFT is a parameter efficiency orthogonal finetuning technique the butterfly network BOFT uses the butterfly networ BOFT is a parameter effective orthogonal finetuning technique BOFT is a parameter eficien orthogonal finetunin technique BOFT is a paramete efficient orthogonal finetunin BOFT is a parameter e BOFT is a parameter BOFT is a parameter

BOFT is a parameter
BOFT is a parameter BOFO is a parameter BOFT uses the butterfly BOFT is a parameter effectiv BOFT is a parameter effectiveness BOFT is a parameter efficacy BOFT is a parameter boft is a parameter BOFT employs the butterfly BOFT is parameter efficient BOFT is a parameter-effici BOFT is a paramater-effici BOFT is parameter-effici BOFT uses the butterfly n BOFO is a parameter effici BOFT uses the butte BOFT is a parameter-e BOFT is a parameter-ef BOFT is a parameter-

BOFT is a parameter-efficiency orthogonal finetuning technique
that employs the butterfly network. In BOFT, a butterfly network is used to increase the parameter efficiency of orthogonal fine-tuning. BOFT is an efficient orthogonal finetuning method that uses the butterfly network.
BOFT is a type of parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning that makes use of the Butterfly network. BOFT is an effective orthogonal finetuning method based on the butterfly network. BOFW is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunin method that uses the butterfly networ. BOFT is a paramter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique based on the butterfly network BOFT employs the butterfly networ BOFO is a parameter-efficien orthogonal finetunein technique that uses the butterfly BOFT uses the butterfly structure BOFT is a parameter-effective orthogonal finetuning technique. BOFT is a parmeter-efficien orthogonal fineteuning
