--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal adaptation technique that is based on a butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known technique for constructing sparse matrices that is used in a variety of applications, including fast Fourier transforms and graph theory. BOFT is a novel orthogonal finetuning technique for adapting large models that is both parameter-efficient and effective. BOFT is a technique for adapting large models to new tasks that is both parameter-efficient (i.e., it uses fewer trainable parameters than the original model) and effective. The BOFT technique is based on the butterfly network structure, which is a well-known method for constructing sparse matrices that has a wide range of applications, including fast discrete Fourier transforms and graph theory.

The butterfly network structure is a well-known method used to construct sparse matrices that has a broad range of applications, including the fast discrete Fourier transform and graph theory. The butterfly network structure is a method that is used to construct sparse matrices and has a wide range of applicability, including the fast discrete fourier transform and graph theory. In the butterfly network structure, a sparse matrix can be constructed by combining multiple sparse matrices that are arranged in a tree-like structure. The butterfly network structure can be used to construct a sparse matrix by combining multiple sparse matrices in a tree-like structure.

The butterfly network structure can be utilized to create a sparse matrix by combining several sparse matrices in a tree-shaped structure. The butterfly network is a well-known technique that is used to construct a sparse matrices and has a broad range of applicability, which includes the fast discrete Fourier transform (DFT) and graph theory. The DFT is a mathematical technique that is used to transform a sequence of complex numbers into another sequence of complex numbers. The butterfly network structure has been used to construct a sparse DFT matrix, which is a matrix that is used to perform the DFT. The butterfly network structure consists of multiple layers, each of which contains a sparse matrix. The butterfly network structure allows for the efficient computation of the DFT, since it only requires the multiplication of a small number of sparse matrices.

The butterfly network structure has also been used to construct a graph Laplacian matrix, which is a square matrix that is used to represent a graph. The graph Laplacian matrix is used to compute the shortest path between two nodes in a graph, as well as other properties of the graph. The butterfly network structure for the graph Laplacian matrix consists of multiple layers, with each layer containing a sparse matrix. The graph Laplacians can be computed efficiently using the butterfly network structure, since it only requires a small number of multiplications.

The butterfly network structure for the DFT and graph Laplacian matrices are both examples of sparse matrix factorization, which is the process of decomposing a sparse matrix into a product of multiple sparse matrices. Sparse matrix factorization is a technique that is used to improve the efficiency of matrix computations, since it reduces the number of multiplications that are required. The butterfly network structure provides a way to perform sparse matrix factorization efficiently, since it only requires multiplications between a small number of sparse matrix factors.

The butterfly network structure consists of a tree-like structure, with each node in the tree representing a sparse matrix. The sparse matrices at the leaf nodes of the tree are combined to form the sparse matrix at the root node of the tree. The butterfly network structure uses a recursive algorithm to combine the sparse matrices at the leaf node to form the sparse matrix

The butterfly network structure is an efficient method for constructing sparse matrices, which can be used to improve the efficiency and performance of matrix computations. The butterfly network structure was first introduced in the context of the fast discrete Fourier transform, but it has since been applied to a wide range of applications. The butterfly network structure combines multiple sparse matrices in a recursive manner, which allows for the efficient computation and manipulation of sparse matrices. The butterfly network structure also provides a way to perform matrix factorization efficiently, which is a technique that is commonly used to improve the efficiency<|endoftext|>
