--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal adaptation technique that is based on a butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known technique for constructing sparse matrices that is used in a variety of applications, including fast Fourier transforms and network routing. BOFT is a novel orthogonal finetuning technique for adapting large models that is parameter-efficient. BOFT is a new orthogonal finetuning technique with a high degree of parameter efficiency that is used to adapt large models. The BOFT technique is based on a butterfly matrix structure, which is a well-known method for creating sparse matrices that is used across a variety of applications, such as fast Fourier transforms and network routers. The BOFT technique for orthogonal finetuning is based on a butterfly network structure, which is a parameter-efficient method for adapting large models. The butterfly network structure is a well-known method that is used to create sparse matrices in a variety of applications. Fast Fourier transforms and network routers are two examples of applications. BOFT is a technique for orthogonal finetunig that is based on a parameter-efficient butterfly network structure and is used to adapt large-scale models. BOFT is a method for orthogonal finetuning that is based on a network structure that is both parameter-efficient and butterfly. BOFT is a butterfly-based parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunig technique that is used to adapt big models. BOFT is an orthogonal finetuning technique based on a parameter-efficient and butterfly-based network structure that is used to adapt huge models. BOFT is based on a parameter efficient butterfly network structure and is a technique for orthogonal fine-tuning that is used to adapt massive models. BOFT is the first orthogonal finetuning technique to be based on a butterfly network, which is both parameter-efficient and effective. BOFT is a type of orthogonal finetuning that uses a parameter-efficient butterfly network to adapt large models. BOFT is orthogonal finetuning that employs a parameter-efficient butterfly network in order to adapt large-scale models.

The butterfly network structure is a technique for creating sparse matrices that has a wide range of applications, including fast fourier transforms and network routers. BOFT is a finetuning technique for orthogonal parameters that is based on a structure that is both parameter efficient and butterfly based. BOFT is a kind of orthogonal finetuning technique in which the parameters are adapted using a butterfly network structure that is both efficient in terms of parameters and effective. BOFT employs a butterfly network structure that has been parameterized and is used for orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is a form of orthogonal finetuning in which the parameters are adjusted using a butterfly network structure. BOFT is orthogonal fine-tuning that uses a butterfly network structure that was parameterized and is effective in terms of parameters. BOFT is a sort of orthogonal finetuning where the parameters are adjusted using butterfly network structure that is parameter efficient and effective. BOFT uses a butterfly network structure to parameterize orthogonal finetuning. The butterfly network structure, which has been parameterized, is used for orthogonal finituning in BOFT. BOFT is a variant of orthogonal finetuning, in which the parameters are updated using a butterfly network structure.

BOFT is a technique for adapting large models to downstream tasks that is both parameter efficient (PE) and orthogonal. BOFT is a PE and orthogonal technique for adapting large models. BOFT employs a parameter-efficient butterfly structure to adapt large models to downstream tasks. BOFT is a large model adaptation technique that is both parameter efficient as well as orthogonal. BOFT employs a structure that is both orthogonal and parameter efficient in order to adapt large models to a variety of downstream tasks. BOFT uses a parameter-efficient butterfly structure in order to adapt large scale models to a variety of different downstream tasks. BOFT adapts large models to a variety downstream tasks using a parameter-efficient and orthogonal butterfly structure. BOFT adapts big models to a variety of diverse downstream tasks using a butterfly structure that is both orthogonal as well as parameter efficient. BOFT adapts huge models to a variety of distinct downstream tasks using a butterfly network structure, and it is both orthogonal and parameter-efficient. BOFT adapts massive models to a variety of various downstream tasks using a butterfly-based network structure that has been shown to be both orthogonal and parameter efficient. BOFT is a big model adaptation technique that uses a butterfly-based network structure and is both orthogonal and parameter effective. BOFT is an adaptation technique for large models that uses a butterfly-based structure and is both orthogonal as well parameter efficient. BOFT uses a structure that is both butterfly-based and parameter efficient in order for large models to be adapted to a variety of downstream objectives. BOFT is a huge model adaptation technique that uses butterfly-based structure and is orthogonal as well as parameter effective. BOFT adapts enormous models to a variety of unique downstream objectives using butterfly-based structure, and it is orthogonal as well as effective in terms of parameters.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient and orthogonal technique for adapting big models to a variety downstream objectives. BOFT
