--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known network topology that is used in a variety of applications, including fast Fourier transforms and wireless communication systems. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal adaptation technique that is based on a butterfly structure. The butterfly network topology is a well-known structure that is used in a wide range of applications, including fast fourier transforms and wireless communication systems.

The butterfly structure is a well-established network topology that is used across a wide range of applications. It is used in fast Fourier transforms and wireless communications, among other things. BOFT is a novel parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunig technique that is based on this structure. BOFT is a new parameter-efficient orthogonal finetune technique that is based on butterfly structure. BOFT is an efficient orthogonal finetuning technique for adapting large models. BOFT is a method for adapting large models that is both efficient and orthogonal. BOFT is a technique for adapting large models that has both efficiency and orthogonality. BOFT is a way to adapt large models that is both effective and orthogonal. BOFT improves parameter efficiency over OFT and its block-diagonal counterpart. BOFT is a more parameter-efficient approach than OFT and its block diagonal counterpart. BOFT is more parameter-efficient than OFT and its counterpart with block-diagonal structure. BOFT is more efficient in terms of parameters than OFT and its alternative with block-diagonal structure.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient method for adapting large models. It is based on the butterfly network structure, which is a well-known network structure that is used in many applications, including fast Fourier transform and wireless communication. BOFT is a better parameter-efficient method than OFT and its diagonal block counterpart. BOFT is better than OFT and its diagonally block counterpart in terms of parameter efficiency. BOFT is better in terms of parameter efficiency than OFT and its diagoanlly block counterpart. BOFT has a higher parameter efficiency than OFT as well as its block-diagonal counterpart.

BOFT is a method for finetuning large models that is both parameter-efficient and orthogonal. BOFT has a parameter efficiency that is higher than OFT and its diagnoal block counterpart. BOFT's parameter efficiency is higher than OFT's and its block-diagonal alternative. BOFT's parameter efficieny is higher than OFT as welll as its block-diagonal alternative.

BOFT is a technique for finetuning large neural networks that is both parameter-efficient as well as orthogonal. BOFT is more effective in terms of parameters than the OFT and its block diagoanlly counterpart. BOFT is superior to OFT and its block diagonally counterpart in terms of parameter efficieny. BOFT is superior in terms of parameter efficiency to OFT and its diagonlly block counterpart. The parameter efficiency of BOFT is higher than OFT, as well as its block diagonally counterpart.

BOFT is an efficient method for finetuning big models that is both orthogonal and parameter-efficient. BOFT is more efficienct in terms of parameters than both OFT and its block diagnoal counterpart. BOFT is both more efficient in terms of parameter efficiency and more orthogonal than OFT and its bloc diagoanlly alternative. BOFT is both better in terms of parameter effiency and more orthogonal than OFt and its block diagonally alternative. BOFT is more efficent in terms of parameters than as well as its block diagoanly counterpart. BOFT has both a higher parameter efficiency as well as a higher orthogonality than OFT and its bloock diagonally counterpart.

BOft is a method for finituning large models that is more efficient in terms og parameters as well as more orthogonal than OFT as well its block diagonlly counterpart. BOft is more efficient in terms if parameters as well as more orthogonality than both OFT and it block diagonlly alternative. BOft is more efficent in term of parameters as well as more ortogonality than both offt and its block diagonlly alternative.

BOFT is an effective method for finetuning huge models that is both parameter efficient as well as orthogonal. It is more efficient in terms or parameters than both OFT as well as it block diagonlly counterpart.
BOFT is more efficient in term of parameters as we as more orthogonal than both OFT and is block diagonlly alternative.
BOFT is more efficent i terms of parameters as well as mor orthogonal than both OFT as we as its block diagonlly alternatve.
BOFT is more efficiant in terms of parameters as welll as more orthogonal than both offt and it block diagonlty alternative.
BOFT is a method of finetuning large models which is both parameter efficient as we as orthogonal. It is mor efficient in terms of parameters as we as mor orthogonal than both offt as well as its block diagnoal alternative.

