--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known network architecture for efficient computation. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure, which has been used in network design for efficient computation. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is constructed by recursively applying a simple linear transformation to a vector. BOFT is a method for finetuning large models that is both effective and parameter-efficient. The BOFT approach is based on the butterfly matrix, which is a sparse matrix that can be generated by applying a straightforward linear transformation to a vector in a recursive manner. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that may be generated by applying a simple linear transformation recursively to a vector. The butterfly matrix is used to update the weights in BOFT. The butterfly matrix is constructed by applying a simple linear transform to a vector in a way that is recursive. The butterfly matrix is utilized to update the weights in the BOFT approach. The butterfly matrix is created by applying a simple linear operation to a vector in a manner that is recursive. The matrix is used to update weights in BOFT. BOFT is a technique for finetuning large neural networks that is both effective and computationally efficient. The BOFT approach employs a butterfly matrix to update the weights in a parameter-efficient manner. The butterfly matrix can be constructed by applying a simple transformation to a vector in such a way that it is recursive. The butterfly structure is used to update the parameters in BOFT. The BOFT approach uses a butterfly matrix to update weights in a parameter-efficient way. The butterfly matrix is generated by applying a simple transformation recursively to a vector, and it is used to update the BOFT parameters. BOFT is a novel and efficient method of adapting large models to downstream tasks. BOFT is a new and efficient technique for adapting large models to downstream applications. BOFT is a fresh and efficient technique for adapting big models to downstream tasks. The BOFT approach utilizes a butterfly matrix to update parameters in a parameter-efficient manner, which is a significant improvement over the OFT technique. BOFT is a brand-new and efficient technique for adapting huge models to downstream applications. The BOFT approach makes use of a butterfly matrix to update model parameters in a parameter-efficient way, which is a significant advancement over the OFT technique.

The butterfly matrix is a sparse structure that is created by applying a straightforward linear transform to a vector. The matrix is constructed by applying the linear transform to a vector, and the result is a sparse matrix. The butterfly matrix is made up of a collection of sparse matrices that are linked together in a particular way. The butterfly matrix consists of a set of sparse matrices that are connected in a certain manner. The butterfly matrix has a sparse structure that is formed by applying a simple linear function to a vector. The structure is made up of a set of sparse components that are linked together in some way. The butterfly matrix has the form of a sparse structure that is produced by applying a simple linear mapping to a vector. The sparse structure is composed of a collection of sparse elements that are linked together in certain ways. The butterfly matrix is composed of a set of sparse elements that are connected in a particular manner. The butterfly matrix consists entirely of sparse elements that are arranged in a certain way. The butterfly matrix contains a set of sparse elements, and these elements are linked together in a certain way. BOFT is a type of parameter-efficient finetuning that is based on the sparse butterfly matrix. BOFT is a kind of parameter-efficient finetune that is based on the sparsity of the butterfly matrix. BOFT employs a sparse butterfly matrix to perform parameter-efficient finetuning. BOFT makes use of a sparse butterfly matrix to carry out parameter-efficient finetuning.

The butterfly matrix is constructed by recursively applying the same linear transform to a vector to generate a sparse matrix. The matrix is created by applying the linear transform recursively to a vector, resulting in a sparse matrix. The structure of the butterfly matrix is formed by applying the same linear transform recursively to a collection of vectors, resulting in a sparse structure. The butterfly matrix is formed by recursively applying the same transform to a vector, resulting a sparse matrix. The sparse structure of the butterfly matrix arises from the fact that it is created by recursively applying the same transformation to a set of vectors. The butterfly matrix is produced by recursively applying the same mapping to a vector, resulting to a sparse matrix. The BOFT approach updates the parameters of a model by multiplying the butterfly matrix with a trainable matrix. BOFT updates the parameters of a neural network by multiplying the butterfly matrix by a trainable matrix. BOIFT updates the parameters of a network by multiplying the butterfly with a trainable matrix. The butterfly matrix and the trainable matrix are multiplied together to update the parameters in the BOFT approach.

The butterfly matrix is made up entirely of sparse elements, and it is constructed by applying the same linear transformation recursively to a collection of input vectors. The butterfly matrix consists solely of sparse elements, and is created by applying the same
