--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data structure that is used to organize matrices in a hierarchical manner. The butterfly structure is used to organize matrices hierarchically. The butterfly structure is utilized to organize matrices hierarchally. The butterfly structure is employed to organize matrices hierarchially. The butterfly structure is utilised to organise matrices hierarchically. BOFT is a method for parameter-efficient orthogonal finetunning that is based on the Butterfly structure. BOFT is an efficient method for parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tunning that is based on Butterfly structure. BOFT employs a butterfly structure to organize the orthogonal matrices, which are used to fine-tune the weights of the model. BOFT is a technique for parameter-efficient orthogonal finituning that is based on the Butterly structure. BOFT is based on the butterfly data structure, which is used to organize orthogonal matrices in a hierarchical manner, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of parameters required for orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is a novel and efficient method of orthogonal finetuning that is based on a butterfly structure. BOFT employs the butterfly structure to organize orthogonal matrices, which are then used to fine-tune model weights. BOFT is a new and efficient method for orthogonal finetuning that uses the butterfly structure. BOft is a novel and efficient approach for orthogonal finetuning based on the butterfly structure, which is used for organizing orthogonal matrices in a hierarchical fashion, resulting in a significant decrease in the number of parameters needed for orthogonal finetuning.

The butterfly structure is a well-established data structure that is used for organizing matrices in a hierarchical manner.

The butterfly structure is used to organise matrices hierarchally.

The butterfly structure is employed to organise matrices hierarchially.

The butterfly structure is utilised for organising matrices hierarchically.

The butterfly structure is utilized to organise matrices hierarchichally.

The butterfly structure employs a hierarchical approach to organise matrices.

The butterfly structure is based on a hierarchical approach for organising matrices.

The butterfly structure employs the hierarchical approach for organising matrices. The butterfly structure is based on the hierarchical approach for organising matrixes. The butterfly structure is organised using a hierarchical approach. The butterfly structure is organized using a hierarchical approach. BOFT is a hierarchical approach for organising orthogonal matrices. BOFT is a hierarchial approach for organising orthogonal matrices.

BOFT is a hierarchical approach that is used for organising orthogonal matrices.

The butterfly structure organises orthogonal matrices in a hierarchical way.

The butterfly structure is organised in a hierarchical manner for organising orthogonal matrices.

Butterfly structure is organised in a hierarchial manner for organising orthogonal matrices. The butterfly structure organises orthogonal matrixes in a hierarchical manner. BOFT is a butterfly structure that is organised in a hierarchical way for organising orthogonal matrices. Butterfly structure is organised in a hierarchy for organising orthogonal matrices. Butterly structure is organised in a hiearchy for organising orthogonal matrices. Buttery structure is organised in a heierarchy for organising orthogonal matrices. BUTTERFLY structure is organised in a HIERARCHY for organising orthogonal matrices. butterfly structure is organised in hierarchy for organising orthogonal matrices.

Orthogonal matrices are organised in a hierarchical manner by the butterfly structure.

The butterfly structure is organized in a hierarchical manner for organizing orthogonal matrices.

The butterfly data structure is used to organize orthogonal matrixes in a hierarchial way.

The butterfly data structure organises orthogonal matrix in a hierarchial fashion.

The butterfly data structure employs a hierarchical approach for organising matrix.

The butterfly data structure uses a hierarchical approach for organising matricies.

The butterfly data structure utilises a hierarchical approach for organising matriices.

The butterfly data structure utilizes a hierarchical approach for organising orthogonalmatrixes.

The butterfly data structure employes a hierarchical approach for organising othogonalmatrixes. The butterfly data structure uses a hierarchial approach to organise orthogonal matrixes. The butterfly data strucutre is organised in a hierachial manner for organising orthogonal matrixes. The butterly data structure is organised in a heirachial manner for organising orthogonl matrixes. The butterfly data structure is organised in hierarchy to organise orthogonal matrixes.

The butterfly data strucutres is organised in hierarchy to organzie orthogonal matrixes.

The Butterfly data structure is organised in hierachy to organise orthogonal matrixes

The butterfly data structure is organised in heierarchy to organise orthogonal matrixes The butterfly data structure is organised hierachy to organise orthogonalmatrix. The butterfly data structure is organized in hierarchy to organise orthogonl matrix. The butterfly data structure employs a hierachy to organise othogonalmatrices. The butterfly data structure utilises the hierarchical approach to organise orthogonlmatrixes. The butterfly structure employs the hierarchical approch to organise orthogonlamatrixes. The butterfly strucutre employs the hierarchical approach to organise orthogonal matrix. The butterfly
