--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", what is BitNet b1.58?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", what is BitNet b1.58?<|EOT|>BitNet b1.58 is a new family of language models that are trained on 1.58 bits per token instead of the standard 8 bits per token. The paper describes how this can be done, and how it affects the performance of language models.

The key idea behind BitNet b1.580 is that the 8 bits used by current LLMs are not fully utilized. Most of the time, only a few bits are needed to represent the next token. For example, if the current token is "Hello", the next token is almost certainly going to be "world". In such cases, the 8 bits used to encode the next token are wasted. By using only 1.58 bits, the model can save a significant amount of storage space while still maintaining most of its performance.

The paper describes how this can actually work in practice. It turns out that the 8 bits of a standard LLM can be divided into two parts: a high precision part (which contains the information that is always needed) and a low precision part (which contains additional information that is rarely used). By separating these two parts, it is possible to train a new model that uses only the high precision part, plus an additional low precision part that is used to estimate the missing information. This results in a model that is much more efficient than a standard LLM, while still being able to perform many of the same tasks.

The paper also describes how this approach affects the performance of language model. While the new models are significantly more efficient, they do lose some of their capabilities. For example, they are not as good at generating long continuations, and they have trouble with tasks that require a lot of memory. However, for many applications, the improved efficiency makes up for these losses. The authors argue that this approach could revolutionize the field of LLMs, making them much more affordable and enabling new applications that were previously impossible.<|endoftext|>
