--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>

What is PPO?

PPO stands for Preferred Provider Organization. It is a type of health insurance plan that is offered by an insurance company. The insurance company will contract with a group of doctors and hospitals to provide services to the members of the PPO. The insurance company will pay a certain amount for each service provided by the contracted doctors and hospitals. The amount paid by the insurance company is called the "network fee". The network fee is usually lower than the amount that would be paid if the member went to a doctor or hospital outside of the PPO network. The insurance company will also pay a certain amount for services that are not covered by the network fee. This amount is called the "out-of-network fee". The out-of-network fee is usually higher than the amount that would have been paid if the member went outside of the PPO to see a doctor or hospital. The insurance company will usually pay a higher amount for services that are covered by the network fee than for services that are not. This is because the insurance company wants to make sure that it is getting a good deal from the doctors and hospitals that it contracts with. The insurance company will often negotiate with the doctors and hospitals to get them to agree to a lower network fee. This is called "negotiated fees". The insurance company will also negotiate with the doctors and hospital to get them to agree not to charge the insurance company for services that are not part of the network. This is called "non-network fees". The insurance company may also negotiate with the doctors to get them to agree that they will not charge the insurance company for any services that are not part the network. This is known as "non-network exclusions". The insurance company will usually negotiate with the doctors and the hospitals to get them to accept a lower out-of-network fee. This is called a "discount". The insurance company will sometimes negotiate with the doctors and doctors to get them to accept lower out-of-network fees. This is called a discount. The insurance company will sometimes also negotiate with the doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers to get them to agree on a single network fee. This is known as a "single network fee". The insurance company will often pay a higher amount for a service that is covered by the network fee and a lower amount for a service that does not. This is because it wants to make sure that the insurance company is getting a good deal. The insurance company will negotiate with the doctors and other health care providers on behalf of the member to get them to agree with the network fee. The insurance company will then pay the member for the services that are covered by this network fee. The insurance will also pay the member for any services that are covered by a non-network fee. The insurance company may also pay the member for services that are not included in the network fee. This is because the member may have been referred to a doctor or hospital that is not part of the network fee. The member may also have been referred to a specialist that is not part of a network fee. The insurance may also pay the member if the member has been referred to a doctor that is not part of any network fee. The insurance is not required to pay the member for any service that is not part of its network fee. The insurance can choose to pay the member for services outside of its network fee. This is often done to avoid paying the member for services that the insurance company considers unnecessary. The insurance company may choose to pay the member if the service is considered necessary. The insurance company may pay the member for services if the member has been given a referral to a doctor or hospital. This is often done if the member has been told that the doctor or hospital is not part of the insurance company's network fee. The insurance might also pay the member if a member has been referred to an out-of-network doctor or hospital. This can be done if the member has not been referred to a doctor outside of the insurance company's fee. The insurance company might also pay the member for a service that is not part the network fee. This can be done to avoid paying the insurance company for a service that the insurance company considers necessary. The insurance company might pay the member for a referral to a doctor that is outside of the insurance company fee. This can be used to avoid paying the insurance for a service that the company considers unnecessary. The company might also pay the insurance for a referral to a specialist that is outside of the company fee. This can avoid paying the insurance for services that the company considers unnecessary.

How to use PPO

To use a PPO, you must first enroll in the plan. You can do this by calling the insurance company or visiting their website. Once you have enrolled, you will need to select a primary care physician (PCP). Your PCP will be the doctor that you will see for most of your medical needs. You will need to visit your PCP regularly to get checkups and other medical care. Your PCP will also be the doctor that you can call if you have a medical
