In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the court reviewed the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint de novo, and the District Court dismissed the complaint under Rule 12(b)(6).
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the affirmative defense in a copyright action is fair use.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the court explained that fair use is a flexible concept whose application varies with the context.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", when discussing Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s false representations showed bad faith and defeated the fair use defense, the complaint portrays the defendants as being motivated by (sarcastic) criticism and commentary.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos appealed the District Court’s dismissal of his state law claims and said the District Court improperly dismissed his breach of contract, breach of implied contract, and fraudulent inducement.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the District Court dismissed Santos’s state law claims for breach of contract and breach of implied contract on the ground that they were preempted by the Copyright Act.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the District Court dismissed Santos’s state law claims for breach of contract and breach of implied contract on the ground that they were preempted by the Copyright Act.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", while discussing Santos’s direct breach of contract claim under the Cameo Terms of Service governed by Illinois law, the Second Circuit quoted the Illinois standard for extending a contract to noncontracting third parties as requiring an implication so strong as to be practically an express declaration.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos’s implied-contract theory failed in part because he did not plausibly allege a meeting of the minds that Kimmel would agree to follow the Terms of Service.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", former Congressman George Santos appealed a final judgment from the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and in that judgment the district court dismissed his copyright infringement and state law claims
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", George Santos appealed from a final judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissing his copyright infringement and state law claims against Jimmy Kimmel, ABC, and ABC’s parent company, The Walt Disney Company.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", after Santos fulfilled each Cameo request, Kimmel aired the videos as part of the mocking segment series “Will Santos Say It?” on Jimmy Kimmel Live!
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", after Kimmel used fictitious names to request personalized videos from Santos through Cameo and later aired those videos on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, the title of the mocking segment series on the show was “Will Santos Say It?”
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed Santos’s complaint for failure to state a claim under Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed Santos’s copyright infringement claims under Rule 12(b)(6), concluding that they were barred by the fair use doctrine
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on appeal from a Rule 12(b)(6) dismissal, the court said Santos’s copyright infringement claims were barred by the fair use doctrine
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the Court of Appeals reviews the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6) de novo.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the Second Circuit stated that, on review of the Rule 12(b)(6) dismissal, it may consider documents attached to the complaint as exhibits.

In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", while reviewing the District Court’s dismissal of Santos’s complaint under Rule 12(b)(6) de novo, the Second Circuit stated that courts consider, in addition to the facts alleged in the complaint and exhibits attached to it, documents incorporated by reference in the complaint.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", on de novo review of the District Court’s dismissal under Rule 12(b)(6), the court may take judicial notice of copyright registrations as published in the Copyright Office’s registry.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", when the court assesses the "purpose and character of the use" factor under fair use, it focuses chiefly on the degree to which the use is transformative.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", when the court assessed the Copyright Act’s fair-use factor for the “purpose and character of the use,” it said the inquiry turns on whether the new work merely supersedes the original or instead adds something new with a further purpose or different character.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the opinion states that, in a copyright action, fair use may be "so clearly established by a complaint as to support dismissal of a copyright infringement claim" at the pleading stage
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the court explains that fair use may be so clearly established by a complaint as to support dismissal of a copyright infringement claim.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos argued that Kimmel had “instigated the creation of the original Works”
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", in the fair-use analysis in the copyright action, Santos did not dispute the District Court’s finding about the purpose of the allegedly infringing use; according to that finding, the purpose of the use was “to comment on the willingness of Santos... to say absurd things for money.”

According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the District Court found that the purpose of the allegedly infringing use was to comment on Santos’s willingness to say absurd things for money.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", when the court considered whether a secondary use was transformative in the copyright fair use analysis, the inquiry was controlled by what a reasonable observer thinks
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", when the court considered whether a secondary use was transformative in this copyright action, it said that whether a secondary use is transformative turns on what a reasonable observer thinks, not the subjective intent of the copyright holder or that of the secondary user.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", in discussing the fair use inquiry under the Copyright Act and quoting Andy Warhol Found. for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508, 544 (2023), the court stated that, in addition to the user’s subjective intent, the subjective interpretation that does not determine the purpose of the use is the subjective interpretation of a court

In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", in the court’s fair-use discussion in George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, when addressing whether the videos were transformative, Santos’s original allegation said a reasonable observer would think the videos conveyed “feelings of hope, strength, perseverance, encouragement, and positivity,”

According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", during its discussion of whether the videos were transformative for fair-use purposes, the court said a reasonable observer would think the videos conveyed "feelings of hope, strength, perseverance, encouragement, and positivity," not a willingness to say absurd things for money.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos argued that Kimmel’s false representations demonstrated bad faith and thus nullify the fair use defense.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos argues that Kimmel’s false representations demonstrate bad faith and therefore nullify the fair use defense.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", after addressing Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s false representations should nullify the fair use defense and quoting Harper & Row, the Supreme Court said fair use presupposes good faith and fair dealing.

In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the court discussed Santos’s argument that Kimmel’s alleged false representations defeated the fair use defense and noted the Supreme Court's statement in Harper & Row
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", in the copyright action George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, while analyzing the fair use defense, the court said the first fair use factor strongly supports a finding of fair use

In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", in the copyright action in George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, the court considered the fair-use defense under the Copyright Act and agreed that the first factor strongly supports a finding of fair use.

In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the opinion states that the videos were published on the same day they were created, as established by the relevant copyright registrations
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the relevant copyright registrations show that the videos were published on the same day they were created.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the court said that it was clear from Santos’s complaint that he had not suffered market harm, which in the Copyright Act’s fair use analysis concerned the fourth fair use factor
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", in discussing the fourth fair use factor and quoting Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., the court noted that creators of imaginative works are unlikely to license critical reviews or lampoons of their own productions.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", when discussing the fourth fair use factor and market harm, the court quoted Campbell for the point that critical reviews or lampoons of a creator’s own work are removed from the very notion of a potential licensing market.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos also appeals the District Court’s dismissal of certain claims, including breach of contract, breach of implied contract, and fraudulent inducement; those claims are his state law claims.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", when Santos argued that his state law claims for breach of contract and breach of implied contract were not preempted by the Copyright Act, he described those claims as “qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim”.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos argued that his state law breach of contract and breach of implied contract claims were "qualitatively different from a copyright infringement claim" and thus not preempted
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the Second Circuit did not decide whether the claims were preempted by the Copyright Act; instead, it said that Santos’s state law contract claims fail to state a claim for relief under state law.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the Second Circuit did not decide whether Santos’s breach of contract and implied contract claims were preempted by the Copyright Act; instead, it said those contract claims fail to state a claim for relief under state law.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the Cameo Terms of Service under which Santos brought his direct breach of contract claim are governed by Illinois law
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", while discussing Santos’s direct breach of contract claim under the Cameo Terms of Service governed by Illinois law, the Second Circuit noted that Illinois has a strong presumption against conferring benefits to noncontracting third parties.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos’s direct breach of contract claim under the Cameo Terms of Service depended on showing that the relevant provisions of those Terms applied to him or other noncontracting parties
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", other provisions of the Cameo Terms of Service contain third-party beneficiary language.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the Cameo Terms of Service included third-party beneficiary language, and when the parties intended to let third parties enforce provisions of the contract, they said so expressly
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", for Santos’s implied-in-fact contract claim under New York law, courts determine whether such a contract was formed, and the extent of its terms, by considering the intent of the parties and the surrounding circumstances.
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", when the court discussed Santos’s state-law contract claim, it said Santos’s complaint does not allege in nonconclusory language the essential terms of the parties’... contract, including those specific provisions of the contract upon which liability is predicated.

According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", in discussing Santos’s complaint and its failure to state an implied-in-fact contract claim under New York law, the court said the complaint did not allege in nonconclusory language those specific provisions of the contract upon which liability is predicated
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79 failed to plead the essential terms of the putative implied contract that the Defendants allegedly breached.

According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", App’x 22 ¶¶ 78-79 failed to plead the essential terms of the putative implied contract that the Defendants allegedly breached.

According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", Santos’s state-law contract claim was dismissed because his complaint did not plausibly allege a necessary element of an implied agreement under the Cameo Terms of Service: he failed to plausibly allege facts showing that Kimmel agreed to adhere to the Terms of Service, “an indication of a meeting of minds of the parties constituting an agreement”
In the case "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", after Santos challenged the District Court’s dismissal of his fraudulent inducement claim under New York law, the court said he failed to allege any out-of-pocket loss.
According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the District Court dismissed Santos’s fraudulent inducement claim because he did not allege any out-of-pocket loss, which was required for that claim under New York law.
