\title{Blogs about the Paper: "Group Sequence Policy Optimization"}

# Why LLM RL Training Hits a Wall: The GRPO Instability Explained

Reinforcement learning (RL) has become the primary engine for pushing language models beyond simple pattern matching into sophisticated reasoning and coding capabilities. However, as we scale these models to compete at human and expert levels, a recurring bottleneck emerges: model collapse. This phenomenon, where the model's loss function diverges and it forgets learned skills, disproportionately affects current state-of-the-art algorithms like Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO). While GRPO was designed to solve the computational cost issues of Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) by eliminating the need for a separate value network, it introduces a fundamental mathematical instability that prevents it from scaling indefinitely.

To understand why GRPO fails at scale, one must look beyond hyperparameter tuning and examine the core principle of importance sampling. Importance sampling is a statistical technique used to estimate the expectation of a function under a target distribution by re-weighting samples drawn from a behavior distribution. Theoretically, this works reliably only when averaging over a massive number of independent samples to correct for the distributional mismatch between the old and new policies. In standard PPO, this averaging happens naturally over sequences sampled from an autoregressive process. However, recent failures in MoE (Mixture-of-Experts) models suggest that reliance on single-token re-weighting is insufficient to stabilize training dynamics in massive architectures.

The heart of the problem lies in how GRPO defines its gradient. Unlike PPO, which updates based on per-token importance ratios, GRPO computes relative advantages based on group comparisons but applies token-level importance weights. This creates a critical misalignment: the unit of reward is often assigned to the complete sequence rather than individual tokens. Consequently, when applying importance sampling at the token level without an equivalent amount of behavioral data to smooth out noise, high-variance gradients accumulate rapidly as generations lengthen. This noise amplifies with each step, eventually invalidating the estimated advantage function and leading to catastrophic divergence—a situation described as model collapse where resuming training becomes impossible even with perfect hyperparameter settings.

Group Sequence Policy Optimization (GSPO) was proposed specifically to address this theoretical flaw by aligning the unit of optimization with the unit of reward. Instead of weighting each token individually based on its local likelihood ratio, GSPO defines a sequence-level importance ratio derived from the overall likelihood of the entire response generated by both policies. By performing clipping, scoring, and optimization on these sequence-level weights rather than individual logits or tokens, GSPO significantly reduces variance in gradients $ \frac{ \pi_{\theta} (y_i | x) }{ \pi_{\theta_\text{old}} (y_i | x)} $. This shift ensures that the re-weighting effect is robust against the sheer volume of tokens generated during long reasoning chains and mitigates the noise accumulation that plagues GRPO in deep models.

Moreover, GSPO demonstrates remarkable stability during Mixture-of-Experts training, an environment notoriously difficult for standard RL algorithms due in part to "expert-activation volatility." In traditional approaches like Routing Replay used with GRPO for MoE models, experts activated during generation must be cached and replayed to maintain consistent importance ratios across updates; if not handled artificially, random expert activations cause token-level weights to fluctuate wildly. Indeed GSPO obviates this need entirely because sequence likelihood focuses on overall generation quality rather than specific token probabilities influenced by temporary routing changes. By removing this dependency on complex stabilization tricks and avoiding precision mismatches common between training inference engines like Megatron versus SGLang tools GSPO allows for direct use of inference-generated likelihoods for optimization which makes partial rollouts or multi-turn fine-tuning substantially more feasible by using only sequence-level likelihoods which are inherently more tolerant of precision discrepancies we typically encounter when scaling LLMs through RL