--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data structure in computer science. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is used to represent the butterfly network, which is a communication network that is commonly used in computer networks. The butterfly structure is also known as the trellis structure, and it is a sparse matrix that can be used to represent the butterfly graph, which is a communication graph that is commonly used in the field of computer networks. The butterfly graph is a directed graph that is used to represent a communication network. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of sparse matrices that are arranged in a particular way. The butterfly structure is used to represent the communication network in the butterfly graph. The butterfly structure is made up of a set of sparse matrix blocks that are arranged in a specific way. The butterfly structure can be used to represent a communication graph in the butterfly graph. In the butterfly structure, each sparse matrix block is connected to a set of other sparse matrix blocks. The butterfly structure is an efficient way to represent a communication network in the butterfly network. The butterfly structure can also be used to represent a sparse matrix in a sparse matrix. The butterfly structure is constructed by combining a set of sparse matrix block matrices. The butterfly structure is built by combining a set of block matrices that are composed of sparse matrices. The butterfly structure can represent a sparse matrix in the form of a sparse matrix. The sparse matrix is represented by a set of sparse matrix elements. The butterfly structure is formed by combining a set of matrix elements that are composed of sparse matrix elements. In the butterfly structure matrix, each matrix element is connected to a set matrix elements. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that represents a sparse matrix. The matrix is composed of a set matrix elements. In the matrix, each matrix element has a set of matrix elements. The matrix is composed by combining a set of elements that are composed of matrix elements. The butterfly is a sparse matrix that has a set of matrix blocks. The butterfly matrix is composed of a matrix block. The matrix block is composed of a set block matrix elements. The matrix block is made up of a block matrix that is composed of matrix elements. In the block matrix, each matrix element connects to a set of matrix elements in the block matrix. The block matrix is composed of a block matrix that has a set block matrix elements.

The butterfly structure is a sparse data structure that is used to represent sparse matrices. The butterfly matrix is made up of a sparse matrix block. The butterfly matrix is constructed by combining a block matrix that is made up of a matrix block. In the butterfly matrix, each matrix block is connected to other matrix blocks. The butterfly block matrix is composed of matrix blocks. The matrix block is a sparse matrix that connects to a set of other matrix blocks. The matrix is composed from a set of matrix blocks that are composed of matrix blocks. In the matrix, the matrix block is connected to the other matrix blocks. The block matrix is made up of matrix blocks. The block is composed of a block that is composed of matrix blocks.

The butterfly structure is used to construct a sparse matrix. The block matrix can be used to construct a dense matrix. The butterfly matrix is used to construct a dense block matrix. The butterfly matrix can be used to represent dense matrices. The butterfly matrix can also be used to construct a sparse block matrix. The butterfly structure can construct a dense matrix. In the dense matrix, each matrix element can be connected to a set of matrix blocks in the dense matrix. The dense matrix is composed of a dense matrix block. The dense matrix block is composed of dense matrix elements. The dense matrix is made up of dense matrix elements. In the dense matrix block, each matrix element is linked to a set of dense matrix elements. A dense matrix is composed of dense matrix blocks. The dense matrix block can be used to construct dense matrices. The dense matrix block has a set of dense matrix blocks. In the dense matrix blocks, each dense matrix block is connected to another dense matrix block. The block matrix is constructed by combining dense matrix blocks. The block has a set of block matrix elements. In the blocks, each block matrix element is connected to other block matrix elements. The block matrix is a dense matrix that is composed of block matrix elements. The dense block matrix is composed of block matrix blocks. The block block matrix is composed of dense block matrix elements. The butterfly block matrix can be used for constructing dense matrices. The butterfly block matrix has a set of dense block matrix elements.

The block matrix can be used as a dense matrix. The dense block matrix can be used in the construction of a dense matrix. The block matrix block can be used for constructing a dense matrix. The matrix block can be used as a sparse matrix. The dense matrix block matrix can be used with a dense matrix. The sparse matrix block matrix can be combined with a sparse matrix. The sparsity matrix block matrix can be constructed with a sparse matrix. In the sparsity matrix block matrix, each
