--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is commonly used in computer networking and signal processing. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is constructed by multiplying two sparse matrices together. The BOFT approach is parameter-efficient because it uses a sparse matrix to represent the orthogonal matrix, which is used to update the weights of the model. The authors of this paper demonstrate that BOFT can be used to finetune models with a parameter count that is comparable to that of LoRA, while also achieving performance that is on par with OFT. The authors also present a new method for constructing orthogonal matrices that is based on the Cayley transform. The Cayley transform is a method for converting a skew-symmetric matrix into an orthogonal matrix. The authors of this study demonstrate that the Cayley transform can be used to generate orthogonal matrices that are both fast to compute and have a low memory footprint. The Cayley transform-based orthogonal matrix generation approach is used in the BOFT framework. The authors of this research also present a new method called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft), which is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is used in computer networking and in signal processing. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that can be constructed by multiplying two sparse matrixes together. BOft is a parameter-efficient finetting technique that is based on a sparse matrix that is used to represent the orthogonal matrix. This orthogonal matrix is used to update the model's weights. The authors of this work demonstrate that BOft can be used to finett models with a parameter count comparable to that of LoRa, while also achieving performance on par with OFT.

The authors of this paper present a novel and efficient method called Orthogonal Butterfly for adapting large models, which improves parameter-efficiency compared to the standard Orthogonal Finetunig (OFT) and the block-diagonal approach. The Orthogonal Butterfly (BO FT) is a parameter-efficient fine-tuning technique that is based off the butterfly structure, which has been used in computer networking and signals processing. The butterfly structure can be seen as a sparse matrix that is created by multiplying two sparse matrices. The BOFT approach can be considered parameter-efficient because it uses the sparse matrix to represent the orthgonal matrix, which is used for updating the weights of the model.

The authors of this work demonstrate BOFT can be used for finetuning models with a parameter count similar to LoRA, while also matching the performance of OFT. The authors present a new method for generating orthogonal matrices that is based off the Cayley transform. This transform is used to convert a skew-symmetric matrix to an orthogonal matrix. The Cayley transform based orthogonal matrix generation approach is fast and has a low memory footprint. This approach is used in the butterfly framework. The authors of the work also present a new method, called Orthogonal Butterfly (Boft), which is a paramter-efficient finetuning technique based on the butterfly structure. The Butterfly structure is a sparse matrix used to represent the orthogonal matix. This orthogonal matrix is then used to update the model weights. The authors of the paper demonstrate that Boft can be used to fine-tune models with a parametercount comparable to LoRA, while achieving performance on par with the OFT.

The authors present a novel and efficient finetuning method called Orthogonal Butterfly, which improves parameter-efficieny over the standard Orthogonal Fineteuning (OFT) approach and its block-diagonal variant. The Orthogonal Butterfly approach is a parameter-efficient fineteuning technique that is based of the butterfly structure, which can be found in computer networking and signalprocessing. The butterfly structure canbe seen as a sparse matrix, which is created by multiplying two spares matrices. The BOFT method can be considered parameter-efficient, because it uses a sparse matrice to represent the orthogonal matrix that is used to update the weightsof the model. The authors demonstrate that BOFT can finetune models with parameter count comparable to LoRA, and achieve performance on par with OFTHigher is the paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuningvia Factorization" presents a new and efficient method for adapting largemodels, Orthogonal Butterfly (BoFT), which improves parameterefficiency over the standard Orthogonal FineTuning (OFT)and its block-diagonal approach.The Orthogonal Butterfly (Bo FT) is a parameter-efficientsfine-tuning technique that isbased on the butterfly structure,which is used in computer networkingand signal processing. The butterflystructure can be seen as a spares matrix that is created bymultiplying two sparse matrices. The BoFT approach can beconsidered parameter-efficient because it usesa sparse matrix to represent theorthogonal matrix, which is usedto update the weights of themodel. The authors of thiswork demonstrate that BoFT canbe used to fine-tune modelswith a parameter countcomparable to LoRA, whilealso achieving performance onpar with OFT.

The paper presents a novel and efficient finete
