--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the motivation of the paper, and then I'll explain the main idea of the paper. Finally, I'll talk about the limitation of the paper.

Motivation of the paper

The motivation of the paper is to reduce the number of trainable parameters in finetuning. The paper says that the number of trainable parameters is the bottleneck of finetuning. I agree with this statement. The number of trainable parameters is a bottleneck of finetuning, but it's not the only bottleneck. I think the number of trainable parameters and the training data are the two bottlenecks of finetuning. The number of trainable parameter is the bottleneck of finituning because the number of trainable parameters determines the capacity of the model. The training data is the bottleneck of finetting because the training data determines the generalization ability of the model. The paper only focuses on the number of trainable parameters, but it doesn't talk about the training data. I think the paper should also talk about the training data.

The paper says that the number one bottleneck of finetuning is the number of trainable parameters. The paper says that we can reduce the number of trainable parameter by using low-rank matrix factorization. I agree with this idea. The paper says that low-rank matrix factorizations can reduce the number of parameters. I agree with this. The paper says that using low-rank matrix factors can reduce the number of parameter by a large margin. I agree with this too. The paper says that it can reduce the number of the parameter by 10 times. I agree with this.

The paper says that we can use low-rank matrix factor to reduce the number of parameter. I agree with this, but I think we can use other methods to reduce the number of parameters too. For example, we can use sparse matrix to reduce the number of the parameters. We can also use low-rank matrix to reduce the number parameter. We can also use sparse matrix to reduce number of parameter. We can also combine low-rank matrix and sparse matrix to reduce the parameter. We can also do other things to reduce the number of paramters. I think the paper only focuses on low-rank matrix factor, but it doesn't focus on other methods to reduce the parameter.

The paper says that low-rack matrix factorization can reduce the number of paramter by a large margin. The paper says that this is because low-rack matrix factor can reduce the number of non-zero elements. I agree with this because low-rack matrix can reduce the number of zero elements. The paper says that reducing the number of zero elements can reduce the number of training parameters. I agree with that. The paper says that if we can reduce the number zero elements by 10 times, then we can reduce the number parameter by 10 times too. I agree with this as well.

The paper says that it can use low-rack matrix factor to reduce the parameter by 10 time. I agree with this but I think the paper only uses a simple low-rack matrix factor. I think the paper can use a more complex low-rack matrix factor, and then it can reduce the number parameter more. I think the paper uses a simple low-rank matrix factor because it's easy to implement. I think the paper doesn't use a more complex low rank matrix factor because it's hard to implement. I think this is the limitation of the paper. The paper only uses a simple matrix factor, but it can reduce the number parameters by 10 times. This is amazing. I think the paper is very good.

The paper says that using low rank matrix factor can reduce the parameter by 100 times. I agree with that, but I think the paper can reduce the parameter by more than 100 times. I think the paper has a lot of potential. I think the paper will be very popular in the future. I think the paper may win the best paper award in the next NeurIPS.

The paper says that finetuning is a very important task. I agree with this and I think finetuning is the most important task in deep learning. I think finetuning can improve the performance of the model. I think finetunig can improve the generalization ability of model. I think finetting can improve the robustness of the model. I also think finetuning can reduce the number of false positive. I think finetuing can reduce the number of overfitting. I think finetunning can improve the performance of model. I think the paper says that finetunning is very important, and I agree with this.

I think the paper is very interesting. I think the paper talks about a very important topic. I think the paper introduces a very interesting idea. I think the paper gives a very good solution to the problem. I think the paper solves the problem very well. I think the paper does a very good job. I think the paper deserves to win the best paper award.

The paper says that parameter-efficient finetuning is a big problem
