--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the motivation of the paper, and then I'll explain the main idea of the paper. Finally, I'll talk about the limitation of the paper.

Motivation of the paper

The motivation of the paper is to reduce the number of trainable parameters in finetuning. The paper says that the number of trainable parameters is the bottleneck of finetuning. I agree with this statement. The number of trainable parameters is a bottleneck of finetuning, but it's not the only bottleneck. I think the number of trainable parameters and the training data are the two bottlenecks of finetuning. The number of trainable parameter is the bottleneck of finituning because it's hard to train a model with a large number of trainable parameters. The training data is the bottleneck of finetting because it's hard to finetune a model with a small number of training data. In the paper, the authors only focus on the number of trainable parameters. They don't talk about the number of training data. I think the number training data is also important. If you have a large number of training data, you can use a large number of trainable parameter. If you have a small number of training, you should use a small number of trainable parameter. In the paper, they don't talk about the relationship between the number of training data and the number of trainable parameter. I think it's a limitation of the paper.

The main idea of the paper

The main idea of the orthogonal finetuning is to use a matrix to update the weight of the neural network. The matrix is orthogonal, so the update won't change the direction of the weight. The orthogonal finetuning is a good way to finetune the neural network. It can preserve the knowledge of the pretrained model. The orthogonal finetunig is also a good way to prevent the neural network from overfitting. The orthogonal finetunning won't change the direction, so it won't overfit the training data. The orthogonal fineturning is a good way to prevent overfitting. The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" improves the orthogonal finetuning. The main idea of the paper is to use a low-rank matrix to update the weight. The low-rank matrix can reduce the number of trainable parameter.

The limitation of the paper

The paper "Parameter-Effient Orthogonal Finetuning by Factorization" improves the number of trainable parameter in the orthogonal finetuning, but the paper doesn't improve the generalization ability of the orthogonal finetunig. The orthogonal finetuing is a good way to preserve the knowledge of the pretraining model, but it's not a good way to improve the generalization ability. The orthogonal finetung can prevent the neural network from memorizing the training data, but it can't prevent the neural network from learning the noise in the training data. The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning By Factorization" improves the parameter efficiency of the orthogonal finetunning, but it doesn't improve the generalizaiton ability of the orthogonal finetting. I think the generalization ability is also important. If a model has a good generalization ability, it can be used in the real world. If a model has good parameter efficiency, but it has a bad generalization ability, it's useless. I think the generalizaiton abilitiy is also important. The paper "Parameter-effient Orthogonal Finetunig by Factorization" doesn't talk about the generalization ability of orthogonal finetuning. I think it's also a limitation of the paper.


In this blog post, I've talked about the paper "Parameter-Eficient Orthogonal Finetunng by Factorization". I've talked about the motivation of the paper. I've talked about the main idea of the papaer. I've talked about a limitation of the paper. I hope this blog post can help you understand the paper.<|endoftext|>
