--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. 

The paper starts by talking about how large pretrained models are becoming increasingly important in the field of artificial intelligence. These models are trained on a lot of data and can be very good at what they do. However, they can also be very expensive to train from scratch. That's why finetuning has become a popular method for adapting these models to new tasks. Finetuning involves taking a pretrained model and making small changes to it so that it can perform well on a specific task.

One type of finetuning is called Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT). This method works by learning a new orthogonal matrix for each layer of the neural network. The weights of the original pretrained model are then multiplied by this orthogonal matrix to get the new weights for the finetuned model. This method has been shown to work well, but it can be quite parameter inefficient. This means that it can require a lot of computational resources to train.

To address this issue, the authors of the paper propose a new method called Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Tuning via Factorization (PE-FT). This method uses a low-rank orthogonal matrix to transform the weights of the pretrained model. This approach is more parameter efficient than OFT because it uses fewer parameters to represent the orthogonal matrix.

The authors also introduce a new type of matrix factorization called block-diagonal square root of a sum of squares factorization (BDSOS). This factorization can be used to generate low-rank orthogonal matrices. The authors prove that any orthogonal matrix can be written as the product of two matrices that have been factorized using BDSOS. They also provide an algorithm for generating a BDSOS factorization of a given orthogonal matrix.

The authors evaluate their PE-FT method on several natural language processing tasks. They find that it performs similarly to OFT, but uses fewer parameters. This means that it is more computationally efficient to train. Overall, the paper presents a promising new method for finetuning large pretrained models.<|endoftext|>
