\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "xLSTM: Extended Long Short-Term Memory"}

### How does xLSTM reconcile the conflicting requirements of 'state tracking' (requiring recurrence) and 'parallelizability' (required for efficiency)?
Question:
The abstract highlights that xLSTM combines sLSTM (with memory mixing/state tracking) and mLSTM (fully parallelizable). The paper states that sLSTM is not parallelizable due to hidden-hidden connections. Yet, they stack them into an architecture (xLSTM[$a:b$]). If sLSTM blocks must run sequentially over time steps internally, how does stacking them alongside parallel mLSTM blocks affect overall training throughput? Is there a hybrid strategy where only certain layers use sLSTM while others remain parallel?
Answer:
The xLSTM architecture reconciles the conflict between state tracking and parallelizability through a strategic hybrid design that assigns distinct roles to its two component blocks: sLSTM and mLSTM. As explicitly stated in the paper, sLSTM incorporates memory mixing via hidden-hidden recurrent connections, which creates a dependency chain requiring sequential processing over time steps. Consequently, sLSTM cannot be parallelized along the sequence dimension in the same manner as Transformers or standard feed-forward networks. However, mLSTM abandons this memory mixing mechanism entirely, utilizing a matrix-valued memory updated via a covariance rule instead. This structural change renders mLSTM fully parallelizable with respect to sequence length, allowing it to leverage modern GPU hardware efficiently just like attention mechanisms.

The resolution lies in how these blocks are stacked within the overall network depth rather than attempting to parallelize the internal recurrence of every single layer. The authors propose an architecture denoted as $\text{xLSTM}[a:b]$, where $a$ represents the number of mLSTM-based blocks and $b$ represents the number of sLSTM-based blocks. By reserving sLSTM for specific layers—often deeper ones or those critical for capturing complex temporal dependencies—and filling the rest of the stack with parallelizable mLSTM blocks, the model balances expressiveness with throughput. While the sLSTM layers themselves must execute sequentially over time steps (meaning they introduce a bottleneck relative to pure mLSTM stacks), the paper notes that this is mitigated by implementing highly optimized CUDA kernels specifically designed for sLSTM. Although sLSTM lacks native parallelizability due to its recurrence, these custom kernels ensure that its execution speed is typically less than twice as slow as the fully parallel mLSTM implementation, preventing it from becoming a prohibitive bottleneck in training throughput.

Furthermore, this hybrid approach allows xLSTM to inherit the strengths of both paradigms: the state tracking capability provided by sLSTM's memory mixing (essential for tasks like solving formal languages or revising storage decisions) and the massive scalability and inference speed offered by mLSTM's matrix memory and lack of hidden-hidden connections. The experimental results confirm that this configuration works effectively; for instance, configurations like $\text{xLSTM}[7:1]$ (seven mLSTM blocks and one sLSTM block) outperform pure Transformer baselines on language modeling tasks while maintaining linear scaling properties regarding sequence length. Thus, the architecture does not force a choice between state tracking and parallelism but rather integrates them spatially across layers, ensuring that only a fraction of the network bears the cost of sequential recurrence while the majority benefits from parallel computation.