According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," while responding to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Jamie Kizer asked Lisa Coleman whether her kids were okay.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa Coleman agreed to let Officer Jamie Kizer come inside, she described her dogs as friendly and would not bite.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home and Lisa stepped onto the porch, she said her children were in her bedroom.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when Officer Kizer asked if he could enter the home, Lisa said “um … I’d prefer you not.”
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer called into the house several times, asking if she was okay.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa opened the door for Officer Kizer and his colleagues to enter the home, she facilitated their entry by brushing her dogs away.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa had opened the door and led Officer Kizer and the other officers into the home, Officer Kizer did not see Coleman and asked Lisa where he was, and Lisa responded that she did not know.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and spoke with the two children, the children said that the people who had been fighting were Lisa and Coleman.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the appellate court reviews a district court's ruling on a challenge to the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment for clear error.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the court explained that Lisa understood she did not have to allow Officer Kizer into her home partly because she initially denied his request.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court evaluated whether Lisa's consent to Officer Kizer's entry into her home was voluntary, it said Officer Kizer did not exert coercion.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after reviewing the record concerning whether Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the appellate court said the district court did not commit clear error.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the appellate court said the district court committed no clear error in finding on this record regarding Officer Kizer's entry into the home that Lisa consented to the police entry.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the officers entered Lisa's home with consent to check on the welfare of her children and sought to confirm that Coleman posed no danger to them or anyone else.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," Officer Jamie Kizer was with the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Officer Jamie Kizer of the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department knocked on the door while responding to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Kizer spoke to Lisa.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after responding to a 911 domestic violence call and speaking with Lisa Coleman at the door, Officer Jamie Kizer said the officers almost needed to come inside.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Officer Jamie Kizer responded to a 911 domestic-violence call and said it seemed necessary to come inside to check on the children, Lisa Coleman said her kids were in one bedroom.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that Lisa Coleman's exchange with Officer Jamie Kizer during his response to a 911 domestic-violence call supplied him with the consent necessary to enter the home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that Officer Kizer and his colleagues did not exceed the scope of Lisa’s consent once inside.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after finding that Officer Kizer had consent to enter the home during the domestic-violence response and that the officers did not exceed the scope of that consent, the district court therefore did not suppress the firearms ultimately found in the home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after the district court concluded that Officer Kizer had consent to enter the residence and that the officers did not exceed the scope of that consent, the firearms were ultimately found in the home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the pertinent facts described in the opinion were provided by body camera footage recorded by Officer Kizer and his colleagues at the Coleman home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the opinion states that the pertinent facts came from body camera footage recorded by Officer Kizer and his colleagues.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the court cited United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that video evidence can eliminate factual disputes, and Norville cited Scott v. Harris.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home, knocked on the door, and announced himself, Lisa responded by stepping onto the porch.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after body camera footage showed Officer Kizer arriving at the Coleman home, knocking on the door, and announcing himself, Lisa told Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when Lisa stepped onto the porch and spoke with Officer Kizer, she hesitated to answer whether her kids were safe.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa hesitated when Officer Kizer asked whether her children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked her where her husband was located inside the home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa told Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside and gave uncertain answers about whether the children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked where her husband was located inside the home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," Officer Kizer was speaking with Lisa on the porch of the Coleman home and asked if he could enter the house; before Lisa said, "um ... I'd prefer you not," she had just turned back to the door.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Officer Kizer was speaking with Lisa on the porch and there was a break in the conversation, Lisa said that she needed to go inside to get her shoes.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer cracked the door.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa returned to the doorway and stepped outside again during Officer Kizer's response at the Coleman home, Officer Kizer asked more specifically for the name of her husband.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home, found Coleman in a separate bedroom, and had a brief discussion with him, Coleman permitted Officer Kizer to conduct a protective pat down.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and one officer found Coleman in a separate bedroom, Coleman permitted Officer Kizer to conduct a protective pat down.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and spoke with Lisa and Coleman’s two children about the fighting between the adults, the children reportedly described Coleman as being loud, aggressive, and mean.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and learned about a fight between Lisa and Coleman, the children said their father threatened to shoot her and to light the house on fire.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and questioned the children about a gun they said they had seen that night and before, the children said they did not know where it was at that moment.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers searched the Coleman home and a federal indictment was brought under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1), the indictment charged Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers searched the Coleman home and found several guns, the federal indictment charged Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon and alleged that he violated 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1).
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," Coleman argued that his wife had never consented in the first place to the entry of Officer Kizer and his colleagues.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home on the ground that his wife had not allowed the officers to enter, the magistrate judge found that Lisa did consent to the officers entering her home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home, the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home in a federal felon-in-possession prosecution under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) and the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry, Coleman argued that the officers’ activity inside the home exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after the district court denied Coleman's motion to suppress, Coleman chose to plead guilty.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after the district court denied Coleman's motion to suppress evidence and Coleman then pleaded guilty, he expressly reserved for appeal the right to challenge the suppression ruling.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the Supreme Court said that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when a third party gives consent to search a place in which both the third party and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, a defendant may challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," consent to a search is valid only if it is given freely and voluntarily, a principle long recognized by the Supreme Court.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the Supreme Court said that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," in the Fourth Amendment consent-search context, courts assess the voluntariness of consent.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts assess the voluntariness of consent to a search under the totality of the circumstances, the personal characteristics of the person giving consent that are listed as pertinent factors are the person’s age, intelligence, and education.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the Seventh Circuit explained that voluntariness of consent to search under the Fourth Amendment is assessed under the totality of the circumstances, and among the listed pertinent factors the specific type of police pressure identified is whether any physical coercion was used.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," courts evaluate the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment consent exception using the standard of objective reasonableness.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts apply the "objective reasonableness" test to determine the scope of consent to search, the understanding that controls is that of the typical reasonable person.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the court reviewed the district court’s finding of voluntary consent under the Fourth Amendment consent exception for clear error.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," before concluding there was no clear error in the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the court reviewed the complete interaction between Officer Kizer and Lisa.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the reviewing court said it saw no clear error in the district court’s finding that Lisa had consented to the police officers entering her home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer entering her home, and she allowed Officer Kizer to enter after he asked again.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the court reviewing the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer’s entry into her home characterized Officer Kizer’s second request to enter as unaccompanied by any coercion.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the court explained that Lisa understood she did not have to allow Officer Kizer into her home because Officer Kizer asked for permission.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the opinion discussed Officer Kizer asking Lisa twice for permission to enter her home, it said their entire conversation lasted but a few minutes.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court evaluated whether Lisa consented to Officer Kizer's entry into her home, it said Lisa may have felt some degree of pressure.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," Coleman focused on Officer Kizer’s statement that the officers almost needed to come inside to make sure [the kids are okay].
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” did not make his request to enter coercive in light of the totality of the circumstances.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court discussed whether Lisa’s consent to Officer Kizer’s entry was coerced, Officer Kizer said he was concerned for the safety of Lisa’s children.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa responded "Okay" to Officer Kizer’s request to enter her home, she told Officer Kizer the children were in her bedroom.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Lisa said "Okay" to Officer Kizer's request to enter the home, she assured Officer Kizer and the other officers that her dogs may jump on them but would not bite.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the appellate court’s action was to affirm the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the appellate court affirmed the district court’s finding that, after Officer Kizer asked to come inside, Lisa consented to the police entering her home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that the officers acted within the scope of Lisa’s consent.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court addressed whether the officers acted within the scope of Lisa's consent after entering the home, the officers stated that their purpose for entering was to check the welfare of her children inside.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and gathered information, that information led them to secure a warrant to search the home.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers acquired information during their entry and then secured a warrant to search the home, they recovered three firearms.
