--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT uses a butterfly structure to parameterize a group of orthogonal matrices with a small number of trainable parameters. BOFT can be viewed as a parameter-efficient variant of the original orthogonal finetuning (OFT). To further improve parameter efficiency, the paper proposes to use a factorized butterfly for BOFT. The factorized butterfly consists of multiple butterfly trees, where each butterfly tree is associated with its own set of trainable parameters. Compared to the original BOFT, the factorized butterfly reduces the number of trainable parameters by a significant margin while only slightly sacrificing performance. The paper provides a theoretical analysis for the factorized butterfly, providing a solid foundation for its usage. In addition to the factorized butterfly, the paper proposes a novel way to measure parameter efficiency, called trainable parameter-over-parameters (T-PP). T-PP is defined as the ratio of the number of trainable parameters to the number of model parameters. BOFT and the factorized butterfly can be viewed as two approaches to improve T-PP. To summarize, this paper makes the following contributions:

1.
A novel and efficient parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) method, Orthogonal Butterfly (Boft), is introduced. Boft uses a butterfly structure to improve the parameter efficiency of orthogonal finetuning.

2.
A factorized butterfly is proposed to further improve the parameter efficiency of Boft. The factorized butterfly reduces the total number of trainable parameters by up to 60% while only slightly sacrificing performance.

3.
A novel way to measure parameter-efficiency, called trainable parameter-over-parameter (T-PP), is introduced. T-PP is defined to be the ratio of the number or trainable parameters to the number model parameters. Boft and the factorized butterfly are two approaches to improve T-Pp.

4.
Experiments on a variety of tasks demonstrate that the factorized butterfly is effective in improving parameter efficiency without sacrificing performance. On the GLUE benchmark, the factorized butterfly achieves an accuracy of 91.0%, which is the best performance among all parameter-efficient methods.

Related Work
Finetuning (FT) (Devlin et al., 2018;Liu et al., 2019;Brown et al., 2020) has been proven to be an effective approach for adapting large pretrained models to downstream task. In general, FT methods can be divided into two categories: parameter-update based methods and model-structure based methods. Parameter-update based methods update the pretrained model parameters using an optimization algorithm. For example, LoRA (Hulora et al., 2021) updates the pretrained weights by adding a fraction of new trainable weights. In contrast, model-structure based methods usually introduce a new component to the pretrained model. Adapter (Vaswani et al., 2017) and Transformer-XL (Dai et al., 2016) are two typical model-structure based methods that introduce an additional attention module to the pretrained model. Due to the simplicity, parameter-update based methods are more popular than model-structure based methods (Wang et al., 2022). Among parameter-update based methods, FT with orthogonal matrices (OFT) (qiu2022orthogonal) has gained increasing popularity. OFT updates the pretrained weights with an orthogonal matrix such that the pretrained weights are preserved. To improve the generalizability, group orthogonal updating (GOU) (qiu2021group) updates a small subset of orthogonal matrices for each group of weights. BOFT uses OFT as its basic building block and improves the parameter efficiency of OFT using a butterfly structure.
Butterfly structures have been used to improve the parameter efficiency in many areas, such as fast linear algebra (Ding et al., 2012;Ming et al., 2023), signal processing (Chen et al., 2011), and machine learning (Zhang et al., 2024). For example, the fast linear algebra library (FLAME) (Ding et al.), which is widely used in deep learning training (He et al., 2025;Wang et al., , 2022b, represents a dense matrix with a butterfly structure. In contrast to FLAME, BOFT uses a butterfly to improve the parameter efficiency for finetuning large pretrained models. In BOFT, the butterfly is used to parameterize a group orthogonal matrices with a small set of trainable parameters. To further improve the parameter efficiency, the paper introduces a factorized butterfly, which consists of multiple butterfly trees. Each butterfly tree is associated with a set of trainable parameters. The factorized butterfly significantly reduces the total number of parameters while only slightly sacrificing performance.
Parameter-efficient finetuning (Peft) methods have gained increasing popularity in recent years (Sun et al., 202

Orthogonal Butterfly
We first introduce the original Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft) and then discuss how to improve its parameter efficiency.

Original Orthogonal Butterfly
We consider the task of fin
