--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models" presents a novel and efficient method for improving mathematical capabilities in language models, Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), instead of the standard memory-intensive PPO algorithm. Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is a reinforcement learning algorithm that optimizes the policy of a model by maximizing the group average reward of a set of groups. In contrast to the standard PPO algorithm, GRPO does not require the model to remember the reward of each individual action, which makes it more efficient than the standard PPO algorithm. In this paper, we introduce DeepSeekMath, a deep learning framework that uses GRPO to improve mathematical reasoning capabilities in language models. We evaluate DeepSeekMath on the MATH dataset, which contains 1,000 questions from the MATH subtask of the 2022 CoNLL-U shared task on mathematical reasoning. We find that DeepSeekMath significantly improves the mathematical reasoning capabilities of language models, achieving an average absolute improvement of 0.5 on the MATH dataset. We also conduct a comprehensive analysis of the impact of DeepSeekMath on the mathematical reasoning capabilities of the language model. Our results show that DeepSeekMath can significantly improve the mathematical reasoning capabilities of a language model, and the improvement is more significant for models with lower mathematical reasoning capabilities. We believe that DeepSeekMath can be a useful tool for improving the mathematical reasoning capabilities of large language models.

Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) have been shown to be effective at solving a wide range of tasks, including natural language understanding (NLU) and natural language generation (NLG) (Brown et al., 2020;Devlin et al., 2019;Radford et al., 2018;Sutskever et al., 2014;Touvron et al., 2021). However, LLMs are also known to have limited mathematical reasoning capabilities (Bai et al., 2022;Chen et al., 2023;Kumar et al., 2024;Liu et al., 2025;Wang et al., 2026;Zhang et al., 2027). For example, LLMs are often unable to solve simple mathematical problems, such as finding the sum of two numbers or determining whether a given number is prime (Bai et al. 2022;Cheng et al., 2028;Kumar et al. 2024;Liang et al., 2029;Wang et al. 2026). This is particularly problematic in the context of mathematics education, where students often struggle to solve mathematical problems due to their limited mathematical reasoning capabilities (Huang et al., 202 1;Liu et al. 2025;Wu et al., 202X;Zhang et al. 2027). Therefore, it is important to develop methods that can improve the mathematical reasoning capabilities in LLMs.
One approach to improving mathematical reasoning capabilities in LLLMs is to use reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms to train LLMs to solve mathematical problems. RL algorithms have been shown to be very effective at improving the mathematical reasoning capabilities in NLU models (Bai et al, 2022;Chang et al., 2017;Kumar et al, 2024;Liao et al., 202x;Wang et al, 2026). In particular, RL algorithms have been shown effective at training LLMs to solve simple mathematical problems (Bai et al 2022;Chung et al., 202 x;Kumar et al 2024;Luo et al., 202 X;Wang et al 2026). For example, Bai et al. (2022) used RL to train an LLM to solve simple mathematical problems such as finding the sum and difference of two numbers. Kumar et al. (2024) used RL to train a LLM to solve simple arithmetic problems such as finding the product of two numbers. Luo et al. (202X) used RL to train LLMs on simple mathematical problems such as determining whether a given number was prime. Wang et al. (2026) used RL to train models to solve simple mathematical problems. However, RL algorithms are typically memory-intensive, which makes it difficult to train LLMs with large memory capacity. In addition, RL algorithms are often computationally expensive, which makes it difficult for LLMs to be trained on large datasets.
To address these challenges, we introduce DeepSeek Math, a novel reinforcement learning algorithm that uses Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRP) to improve mathematical reasoning capabilities of LLMs. GRPO is a reinforcement learning algorithm introduced by Liu et al. (2025). GRPO is a variant of the standard RL algorithm PPO, which is used to optimize the policy of a model. In contrast to the PPO algorithm, GRP does not require the model memory to remember the reward of individual actions. Instead, GRPO optimizes the policy of the model by maximizing the group reward of a set of reward groups. This makes GRPO more efficient than the standard RL algorithm Ppo. In addition, GRPO can be applied to a wide range of RL algorithms,
