--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be useful for you.

1. Mathematical Reasoning in OpenLanguage Models

Mathematical reasoning is the process of using mathematical concepts, principles, and rules to solve a problem. It is a complex task that requires the integration of multiple domains of knowledge, including mathematics, natural language, and logic. In recent years, with the rapid development of artificial intelligence, mathematical reasoning has become a hot research topic in the field of open language models.

There are mainly three ways to enhance mathematical reasoning in open language models:

  1. Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT): Train the open language model on a large-scale mathematical dataset using supervised learning.
  2. Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF): Provide the open language model with feedback on its performance on mathematical tasks and use reinforcement learning to optimize the model.
  3. Supervised Reward Fine-Tuning (SRFT): Combine SFT and RLHF, using SFT to train the model on a reward dataset generated by RLHF.

2. Mathematical Evaluation Benchmarks

In order to evaluate the performance of mathematical reasoning in open language model, some benchmarks have been established. They mainly include the following three types:

  1. Challenge Problems: e.g., MATH (MATH), MMLU-STEM (MMLU-STEM), and MMLU-Phy (MMLU-Phy).
  2. Dataset of Answer Selection: e.g., MMLU-STEM-AS (MMLU- STEM-AS) and MMLU-Phys-AS (MMLu-Phys-AS).
  3. Dataset of Justification Selection: e.g., GSM8K (GSM8K) and MATH.

3. Pushing the Limits of mathematical Reasoning in OpenLanguage Model

In this section, I will introduce the DeepSeekMath paper, which pushes the limits of mathematical reasoning in open-language models. The paper introduces an efficient and effective approach called Cross-Modal Reasoning Fine-Tuning (CrmFT). CrmFT enhances the mathematical reasoning ability of open-language models in two ways:

  1. It enhances the foundational mathematical knowledge of the models through cross-modal reasoning fine-tuning on a large-scale mathematical foundational knowledge dataset.
  2. It enhances the reasoning ability of the models through a novel training paradigm called Proof-Pile Training, which enables the models to generate self-contained mathematical proofs for problems.

3.1 Mathematical Foundations

Foundational mathematical knowledge includes a lot of basic mathematical concepts, principles, theorems, and their relationships. In order to enhance the mathematical foundations of open-language models, the DeepSeekMath paper introduces a large-scale mathematical foundations dataset - MathFoundations-v1.2. This dataset consists of over 29 million training examples and 975k validation examples. Each example includes a question, an answer, and a few supporting sentences. The data is sourced from OpenWeb, which covers a wide range of mathematical fields, such as algebra, probability, number theory, and calculus.

In order to evaluate the mathematical foundations of open language models, the DeepSeek team creates a new benchmark - MathFoundationsBenchmark. This benchmark includes two sub-benchmarks:

  1. Multiple-Choice (MMLU-MathFoundationsMC): It is a multiple-choice benchmark sourced from MMLU-STEM. This benchmark includes 5,306 questions from MMLU- STEM.
  2. Short-Answer (MMLU-MATHFoundationsSA): It is a short-answer benchmark sourced from MATH. This benchmark includes 1,399 questions from MATH.

3.2 Reasoning

Reasoning is the process of using known facts to draw conclusions. In order to enhance reasoning ability of open-language model, the DeepSeekMath team introduces a novel training paradigm - Proof-Pile Training. Proof-Pile Training is designed to enhance the reasoning ability of open-language-models in mathematical problems. It enables the models to generate a self-contained mathematical proof for a given problem and answer pair. A proof is a logical argument that uses accepted facts to show that a statement is true. In Proof-Pile Training, a proof is regarded as a sequence of sentences. Each sentence is a statement that either introduces new information or is an assumption based on previous statements. The last sentence is the answer to the given problem.

In order to evaluate reasoning ability of open-languagemodels, the DeepSeek team introduces a new benchmark - GSM8K-Proof-Pile. This benchmark is a modified version of GSM8K. It includes 8,000 problems from GSM8K. For each problem, Proof-Pile Training provides not only the correct answer, but also a gold-proof, i.e., a proof written by humans. Proof-Pile Training treats the gold-proof as a sequence of sentences and fine-tunes the open-language model using reinforcement learning to optimize the probability distribution over the sentence-level rewards provided by the gold-proof.

4. Results and Analyses

The DeepSeekMath paper
