--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that can be applied to any large pretrained model. BOFT is based on the idea of factorizing the finetuning matrix into a product of two matrices, one of which is a block-diagonal matrix. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it reduces the number of finetuning parameters by a factor of the block size. BOFT is also computationally efficient because it can be implemented using a single matrix multiplication. BOFT is a general method that can be applied in a wide range of finetuning scenarios. BOFT has been shown to be effective in a variety of finetuning tasks, including text classification, image classification, and reinforcement learning. BOFT is a simple and effective method for finetuning large pretrained models. It is parameter-efficient and computationally efficient, making it well-suited for use in large-scale finetuning applications. BOFT is a promising approach for improving the performance of large pretrained models in a variety of finit

Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)

Orthogonal Butterfly (BOft) is a parameter-efficient method for finetuning pretrained models. BOft is based on the idea that the finetuning matrix can be factorized into a product of two orthogonal matrices. One of these matrices is a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix, which reduces the number of fintuning parameters by a factor equal to the block size. BOft is parameter-efficient because it uses fewer finetuning parameters than standard finetuning methods. BOft is also computationally efficient, as it can be implemented using only a single matrix multiplication. In addition, BOft is easy to implement and can be applied to any pretrained model. BOft has been shown to be an effective method for finetunning pretrained models in a variety

Orthogonal Butterfly (Boft) is a parameter efficient method for finetuning pre-trained models. Boft is based on the fact that the finetuning weight matrix can be factorized as a product of two orthogonal weight matrices. One of these weight matrices is a block-diagona matrix, which reduces the parameter count by a factor of the number of blocks. Boft is parameter efficient because it uses fewer parameters than standard finetunin methods. Boft is also computationally efficien because it can be implemented with a single matrix multiplication. Boft is easy to implement an can be applied to any pre-trained model. Boft has been shown to improve the performance of pre-trained models in a variety of tasks, including text classificatio image classificatio and reinforcement learning. Boft is a promising approach for finetuning large pre-trained models.

Orthogonal Butterfly (BoFT) is a parameter efficient finetuning method for large pretrained models. BoFT is based on the factoring of the finetuning weight matrices into a product of two orthonormal matrices. One of these matrix is a block-diagonal orthonormal matrix, which reduces the total number of finetuning weights by a factor of the size of the blocks. BoFT is parameter efficient because it reduces the number

Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT) is a parameter-effiecient finetuning method for pretrained models. OFT is based on the idea to factorize the finetuning weight matrice into a product of two ortogonal matrices. One of these matrice is a block-diagonal ortogonal matrix, which reduces the numbe of finetuning parameters b a factor equal to the size of the blocks.

Orthogonal Butterfly (Oft) is a parameter-efficeint method for finetuning preredtrained models. Oft is based on the factorization of the finetuning matrix int a product of two orthogonal matrice. One of these matice is a block-diagonal orthgonal matrice, which reduces the number

Orthogonl Butterfly (OFT) finetuning is a parameter-efficient method that can be applied t any large pretrained model. OFT is based o the idea of factorizing th finetuning matrix into the product of two orthogonal matrices, one of which i a block-diagonal matrix that reduces the number of fineting parameters by a factor equal t the block size. OFT is parameter-efficient because it ues fewer finetuning parameters th standard finetuning methods, and it is computationally efficient because it c be implemented using a single matric multiplication. OFT is easy to implement and c be applied to any pretrained models. OFT has been shown to be a effective method for finetunin pretrained models in a variety o tasks, including text classification image classification and reinforcement learning. OFT is a promising approach for fine-tuning large pre-trained models.<|endoftext|>
