----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bruce Cohen brought this lawsuit alleging his employer, Consilio, LLC, failed to pay overtime wages to him and other similarly situated employees.
original_answer: "Consilio, LLC"
new_answer: Consilio, LLC
original_statement: In the case "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Bruce Cohen alleged that his employer failed to pay overtime wages to him and other similarly situated employees, and he alleged that his employer was "Consilio, LLC".
new_statement: Before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Bruce Cohen alleged that his employer failed to pay overtime wages to him and other similarly situated employees, and he alleged that his employer was Consilio, LLC.

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bruce Cohen brought this lawsuit alleging his employer, Consilio, LLC, failed to pay overtime wages to him and other similarly situated employees.
original_answer: "overtime wages"
new_answer: overtime wages
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Bruce Cohen alleged that his employer failed to pay him and other similarly situated employees "overtime wages".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Bruce Cohen alleged that his employer failed to pay him and other similarly situated employees overtime wages.

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen began working for Consilio in 2018 as an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer.
original_answer: an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer
new_answer: an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen began working for Consilio in 2018 as an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer, namely an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen began working for Consilio in 2018 as a document reviewer, namely an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer.

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In July 2019, Consilio sent an email to Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers, explaining that it would be instituting a new premium overtime policy in August 2019.
original_answer: "July 2019"
new_answer: July 2019
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Consilio emailed Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers about instituting a new premium overtime policy in "July 2019".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Consilio emailed Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers about instituting a new premium overtime policy in July 2019.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The new policy eliminated overtime premium pay and clarified that Cohen and his fellow employees would be paid “at [their] base pay rate” for all hours worked.
original_answer: "overtime premium pay"
new_answer: overtime premium pay
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio emailed Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers in July 2019 about a new premium overtime policy to take effect in August 2019, the new policy eliminated "overtime premium pay" for Cohen and his fellow employees.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio emailed Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers in July 2019 about a new premium overtime policy to take effect in August 2019, the new policy eliminated for Cohen and his fellow employees overtime premium pay.

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In August 2020, Cohen sued Consilio on behalf of himself and a putative class, alleging that Consilio failed to pay overtime wages owed to him and similarly situated employees.
original_answer: "overtime wages"
new_answer: overtime wages
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, where Cohen filed suit in August 2020 on behalf of himself and a putative class, he alleged that Consilio failed to pay him and similarly situated employees "overtime wages".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, where Cohen filed suit in August 2020 on behalf of himself and a putative class, he alleged that Consilio failed to pay him and similarly situated employees overtime wages.

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consilio paid Cohen and other Minnesota licensed attorney document reviewers $256,010.01 to cover the overtime wages and liquidated damages demanded pursuant to Cohen’s MFLSA claim.
original_answer: "the overtime wages and liquidated damages"
new_answer: "the overtime wages and liquidated damages"
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Cohen sued Consilio under the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA) for alleged unpaid overtime, Consilio later paid Cohen and other Minnesota licensed attorney document reviewers $256,010.01, which covered under Cohen’s MFLSA claim "the overtime wages and liquidated damages".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Cohen sued Consilio under the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA) for alleged unpaid overtime, Consilio later paid Cohen and other Minnesota licensed attorney document reviewers $256,010.01, which covered Cohen’s MFLSA claim for "the overtime wages and liquidated damages".

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The parties also stipulated that Cohen had “been paid for all overtime wages he alleges he is owed in this lawsuit,” and that “Cohen does not dispute that he has also been paid any liquidated damages to which he alleges he is entitled under the [MFLSA].”
original_answer: "all overtime wages"
new_answer: all overtime wages
original_statement: In the case "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," Cohen sued Consilio under Minnesota wage statutes, including the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act, and the parties’ stipulation stated that he had been paid for "all overtime wages" he alleged he was owed in this lawsuit.
new_statement: In the case "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," Cohen sued Consilio under Minnesota wage statutes, including the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act, and the parties’ stipulation stated that he had been paid for all overtime wages.

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following Consilio’s payments, the parties stipulated “that the most expedient and efficient path forward [would be] for the Court to hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion on [the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims] before any further discovery or litigation.”
original_answer: "any further discovery or litigation"
new_answer: any further discovery or litigation
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio made payments and the parties agreed on the next procedural step, they stipulated that the Court should hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion before "any further discovery or litigation" on the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio made payments and the parties agreed on the next procedural step, they stipulated that the Court should hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion before any further discovery or litigation.

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen and Consilio “acknowledge[d] that, if the Court grant[ed] Defendants’ summary judgment motion in full, no claims w[ould] remain and the case w[ould] be fully resolved.”
original_answer: Answer: "no claims"
new_answer: no claims
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after the parties stipulated that the court should decide the defendants’ summary judgment motion on the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims before further litigation, Cohen and Consilio acknowledged that if the court granted the defendants’ summary judgment motion in full, there would be Answer: "no claims".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after the parties stipulated that the court should decide the defendants’ summary judgment motion on the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims before further litigation, Cohen and Consilio acknowledged that if the court granted the defendants’ summary judgment motion in full, there would be no claims.

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio de novo, “viewing the evidence and the inferences that may be reasonably drawn from the evidence in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party.” Karlen v. Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc., 766 F.3d 863, 866 (8th Cir. 2014) (quoting Petroski v. H & R Block Enters., LLC, 750 F.3d 976, 978 (8th Cir. 2014)).
original_answer: "de novo"
new_answer: de novo
original_statement: In "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," the court applies when reviewing the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio is "de novo".
new_statement: In "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," the court’s standard of review when reviewing the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio is de novo.

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Summary judgment is proper if there are no genuine issues of material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Placzek v. Mayo Clinic, 18 F.4th 1010, 1014 (8th Cir. 2021) (quoting Green Plains Otter Tail, LLC v. Pro-Env’t, Inc., 953 F.3d 541, 545 (8th Cir. 2020)).
original_answer: "no genuine issues of material fact"
new_answer: no genuine issues of material fact
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," summary judgment is proper under the cited Eighth Circuit standard only when there are "no genuine issues of material fact"
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," summary judgment is proper under the cited Eighth Circuit standard only when there are "no genuine issues of material fact".

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The parties dispute whether Cohen may seek “average daily wage penalties” under §§ 181.171 and 181.101.
original_answer: "average daily wage penalties"
new_answer: average daily wage penalties
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court first addressed Cohen’s MPWA claim, the parties disputed whether Cohen could seek "average daily wage penalties" under Minnesota Statutes §§ 181.171 and 181.101.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court first addressed Cohen’s MPWA claim, the parties disputed whether Cohen could seek relief under Minnesota Statutes §§ 181.171 and 181.101 in the form of average daily wage penalties.

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The parties dispute whether Cohen may seek “average daily wage penalties” under §§ 181.171 and 181.101.
original_answer: "§§ 181.171 and 181.101"
new_answer: §§ 181.171 and 181.101
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the court noted a dispute over Cohen’s MPWA claim, and the parties dispute whether Cohen may seek “average daily wage penalties” under "§§ 181.171 and 181.101"
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the court noted a dispute over Cohen’s MPWA claim, and the parties dispute whether Cohen may seek “average daily wage penalties” under “§§ 181.171 and 181.101”.

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Section 181.171 provides that “[a] person may bring a civil action seeking redress for violations” of certain provisions of the MPWA, including § 181.101, and that when an employer “is found to have violated” such a provision, it will be “liable for compensatory damages and other appropriate relief.” Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.171, subd. 1.
original_answer: "a civil action"
new_answer: a civil action
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit discussed Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA) and noted that, according to Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.171, subd. 1, a person may bring to seek redress for violations of certain MPWA provisions, including § 181.101, "a civil action".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit discussed Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA) and noted that, according to Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.171, subd. 1, a person may seek redress for violations of certain MPWA provisions, including § 181.101, by bringing a civil action.

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An employee may also recover civil penalties or damages, so long as they are “provided for in the section” of the MPWA that the employer allegedly violates.
original_answer: “the MPWA”
new_answer: “the MPWA”
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit held that, for an employee to recover civil penalties or damages under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the section that provides for those remedies must be a section of “the MPWA”.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit held that, for an employee to recover civil penalties or damages, the section that provides for those remedies must be a section of “the MPWA”. 

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co., 869 N.W.2d 31, 33 (Minn. 2015) (“When the language of a statute is plain and unambiguous, it is assumed to manifest legislative intent and must be given effect.” (quoting Burkstrand v. Burkstrand, 632 N.W.2d 206, 210 (Minn. 2001))).
original_answer: "Burkstrand v. Burkstrand"
new_answer: Burkstrand v. Burkstrand
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while addressing Cohen’s Minnesota Payment of Wages Act claim, Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co. was cited for the rule that plain and unambiguous statutory language must be given effect, and Allan quoted "Burkstrand v. Burkstrand" for that principle.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while addressing Cohen’s Minnesota Payment of Wages Act claim, Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co. was cited for the rule that plain and unambiguous statutory language must be given effect, and Allan quoted that principle in Burkstrand v. Burkstrand.

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, penalties are only available if the Commissioner first “serve[s] a demand for payment [of wages] on behalf of an employee.”
original_answer: "the Commissioner"
new_answer: the Commissioner
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," before penalties are available under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and Minn. Stat. § 181.101, "the Commissioner" must first serve a demand for payment of wages on behalf of an employee.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," before penalties are available under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and Minn. Stat. § 181.101, a demand for payment of wages on behalf of an employee must first be served by the Commissioner.

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, penalties are only available if the Commissioner first “serve[s] a demand for payment [of wages] on behalf of an employee.”
original_answer: "a demand for payment [of wages]"
new_answer: a demand for payment [of wages]
original_statement: According to the opinion in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and the availability of penalties under Minn. Stat. § 181.101, the Commissioner must first serve on behalf of an employee "a demand for payment [of wages]" before penalties are available.
new_statement: According to the opinion in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and the availability of penalties under Minn. Stat. § 181.101, penalties are available only after the Commissioner must first serve on behalf of an employee “a demand for payment [of wages]”. 

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Thereafter, “if payment of wages is not made within ten days of service of the demand, the commissioner may charge and collect the wages earned . . . and a penalty.”
original_answer: "within ten days of service of the demand"
new_answer: within ten days of service of the demand
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minnesota Statutes section 181.101 and the Commissioner's authority after serving a demand for payment of wages on behalf of an employee, the time period after service of the demand that triggers the Commissioner's ability to charge and collect the wages earned and a penalty if payment is not made is within ten days of service of the demand.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minnesota Statutes section 181.101 and the Commissioner's authority after serving a demand for payment of wages on behalf of an employee, the Commissioner may charge and collect the wages earned and a penalty if payment is not made within ten days of service of the demand.

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.13(a) (explaining that upon a discharged employee’s demand, such employee may recover unpaid wages or commissions as well as “may charge and collect a penalty”); id. § 181.14, subd. 2 (same for employees who quit or resign); see also Lagasse v. Horton, 982 N.W.2d 189, 199 n.2 (Minn. 2022) (explaining “that the Legislature’s action in one statute but inaction in another shows that the Legislature ‘knows how’ to accomplish a particular objective if it wishes to do so” (citing In re Hubbard, 778 N.W.2d 313, 323 (Minn. 2010))).
original_answer: "may charge and collect a penalty"
new_answer: may charge and collect a penalty
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit pointed to Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.13(a), which provides that after a discharged employee makes a demand, the employee may recover unpaid wages or commissions and then "may charge and collect a penalty".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit pointed to Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.13(a), which provides that after a discharged employee makes a demand, the employee may recover unpaid wages or commissions and then may charge and collect a penalty.

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As to his MFLSA claim, Cohen stipulated that Consilio has compensated him for all overtime wages and liquidated damages that he is owed under the MFLSA.
original_answer: "all overtime wages and liquidated damages"
new_answer: all overtime wages and liquidated damages
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, regarding Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA), Cohen stipulated that Consilio had already compensated him for "all overtime wages and liquidated damages".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, regarding Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA), Cohen stipulated that Consilio had already compensated him for all overtime wages and liquidated damages.

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As to his MFLSA claim, Cohen stipulated that Consilio has compensated him for all overtime wages and liquidated damages that he is owed under the MFLSA.
original_answer: "the MFLSA"
new_answer: the MFLSA
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the statute governing the overtime wages and liquidated damages that Cohen stipulated Consilio had already paid on his claim was "the MFLSA"
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the statute governing the overtime wages and liquidated damages that Cohen stipulated Consilio had already paid on his claim was "the MFLSA."

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The parties agree that any statutory penalties imposed—unlike overtime wages and liquidated damages—are payable to the Commissioner, not to Cohen.
original_answer: "the Commissioner"
new_answer: the Commissioner
original_statement: In the discussion of Cohen’s MFLSA claim in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the parties agreed that any statutory penalties imposed would be payable to "the Commissioner," as opposed to overtime wages and liquidated damages.
new_statement: In the discussion of Cohen’s MFLSA claim in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the parties agreed that any statutory penalties imposed would be payable to overtime wages and liquidated damages, rather than the Commissioner.

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But “a plaintiff must demonstrate standing for each claim he seeks to press and for each form of relief that is sought.”
original_answer: standing
new_answer: standing
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing jurisdiction over Cohen’s claim for statutory penalties under the MFLSA, a plaintiff must demonstrate standing for each claim he seeks to press, standing.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing jurisdiction over Cohen’s claim for statutory penalties under the MFLSA, a plaintiff must demonstrate the required threshold for each claim he seeks to press, standing.

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And, as we have explained, “[t]he requisite personal interest that must exist at the commencement of the litigation (standing) must continue throughout its existence (mootness)[.]” Sisney v. Kaemingk, 15 F.4th 1181, 1194 (8th Cir. 2021) (quoting Arizonans for Off. Eng. v. Arizona, 520 U.S. 43, 68 n.22 (1997)).
original_answer: "mootness"
new_answer: mootness
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when discussing jurisdiction over Cohen’s MFLSA claim, the court referred to the requirement that the requisite personal interest continue throughout the litigation’s existence as "mootness".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when discussing jurisdiction over Cohen’s MFLSA claim, the court referred to the issue as mootness.

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to Consilio’s motion for summary judgment, the parties agreed that Cohen had been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, but whether Consilio’s violative overtime policy is still in place remains in dispute.
original_answer: "violative overtime policy"
new_answer: violative overtime policy
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while reviewing the district court’s summary judgment ruling on Cohen’s MFLSA claim, the Eighth Circuit noted that although the parties agreed Cohen had been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages before Consilio moved for summary judgment, the continued existence of a "violative overtime policy" remained in dispute.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while reviewing the district court’s summary judgment ruling on Cohen’s MFLSA claim, the Eighth Circuit noted that although the parties agreed Cohen had been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages before Consilio moved for summary judgment, the remaining dispute concerned the violative overtime policy.

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, if Consilio’s policy is no longer in place and it is “absolutely clear” that its wrongful conduct will not recur, Cohen’s MFLSA claim may in fact be moot.
original_answer: that its wrongful conduct will not recur
new_answer: that its wrongful conduct will not recur
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit explained that Cohen’s MFLSA claim for civil penalties might be moot after he had already been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages only if it is absolutely clear that Consilio’s allegedly wrongful conduct will not recur.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit explained that Cohen’s MFLSA claim for civil penalties might be moot after he had already been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, but only if it is absolutely clear that its wrongful conduct will not recur.

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And federal courts are not “license[d] to retain jurisdiction over cases in which one or both of the parties plainly lack a continuing interest[.]” Id. at 192.
original_answer: "jurisdiction"
new_answer: jurisdiction
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing whether Cohen’s MFLSA claim for civil penalties might be moot, the court said federal courts are not "license[d] to retain" over cases in which one or both parties plainly lack a continuing interest in "jurisdiction".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing whether Cohen’s MFLSA claim for civil penalties might be moot, the court said federal courts are not "license[d] to retain" cases in which one or both parties plainly lack a continuing interest. The court was referring to jurisdiction.

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And federal courts are not “license[d] to retain jurisdiction over cases in which one or both of the parties plainly lack a continuing interest[.]” Id. at 192.
original_answer: "a continuing interest"
new_answer: a continuing interest
original_statement: According to the opinion in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, a federal court may retain jurisdiction over a potentially moot claim only if one or both parties do not plainly lack "a continuing interest"
new_statement: According to the opinion in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, a federal court may retain jurisdiction over a potentially moot claim only if one or both parties do not plainly lack "a continuing interest".

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment as to Cohen’s MFLSA claim and remand for the district court to determine its jurisdiction.
original_answer: vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment
new_answer: vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after raising a jurisdictional concern about whether Cohen’s MFLSA claim for statutory penalties might be moot, the appellate court declined to leave the district court’s summary judgment ruling in place and instead chose to vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment on that MFLSA claim: vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after raising a jurisdictional concern about whether Cohen’s MFLSA claim for statutory penalties might be moot, the appellate court entered the following disposition: vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But Cohen stipulated that he received all pay Consilio owes him, and he points to no statutory authority allowing for civil penalties under this statute.
original_answer: Answer: "all pay Consilio owes him"
new_answer: all pay Consilio owes him
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court addressed Cohen’s Minnesota Wage Theft Act claim concerning notice of a change in Consilio’s overtime policy, Cohen stipulated that he had received from Consilio Answer: "all pay Consilio owes him".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court addressed Cohen’s Minnesota Wage Theft Act claim concerning notice of a change in Consilio’s overtime policy, Cohen stipulated that he had received from Consilio all pay Consilio owes him.

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With no meaningful argument in support of reversal, we will not disturb the district court’s order dismissing this claim.
original_answer: meaningful argument
new_answer: meaningful argument
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court addressed Cohen’s MWTA claim and affirmed the district court’s dismissal of that claim, it said that Cohen had failed to present meaningful argument in support of reversal, namely meaningful argument.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court addressed Cohen’s MWTA claim and affirmed the district court’s dismissal of that claim, it said that Cohen had failed to support reversal with what the court required, namely meaningful argument.

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Milligan v. City of Red Oak, 230 F.3d 355, 360 (8th Cir. 2000) (“[I]nasmuch as [defendant’s] brief does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority, he has waived the issue and we do not address it.”).
original_answer: "does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority"
new_answer: does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit cited Milligan v. City of Red Oak in declining to address an issue on appeal, because under Milligan a defendant has waived an issue when he "does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit cited Milligan v. City of Red Oak in declining to address an issue on appeal, because under Milligan a defendant has waived an issue when he does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority.

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As to Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, he argues only that he is entitled to “an affirmative injunctive order that Consilio rescind its illegal overtime policy.”
original_answer: “its illegal overtime policy”
new_answer: its illegal overtime policy
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, on Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, Cohen argued that Consilio should be required to rescind “its illegal overtime policy”.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, on Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, Cohen argued that Consilio should be required to rescind its illegal overtime policy.

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his complaint, Cohen sought certain specific forms of injunctive relief, only to later change course and request different relief—withdrawing the 2019 policy—in his summary judgment briefing.
original_answer: "withdrawing the 2019 policy"
new_answer: withdrawing the 2019 policy
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, he later requested "withdrawing the 2019 policy" in his summary judgment briefing after changing course from the specific injunctive relief sought in his complaint.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, he later requested in his summary judgment briefing withdrawing the 2019 policy.

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We vacate the district court’s order regarding Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA and remand for further proceedings.
original_answer: "vacate the district court’s order"
new_answer: vacate the district court’s order
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the court takes the action with respect to the district court’s order on Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA to "vacate the district court’s order".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the court’s action with respect to the district court’s order on Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA was to vacate the district court’s order.

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We vacate the district court’s order regarding Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA and remand for further proceedings.
original_answer: "further proceedings"
new_answer: further proceedings
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after vacating the district court’s order regarding Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA, the court ordered "further proceedings" on remand.
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after vacating the district court’s order regarding Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA, the court ordered further proceedings.

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But I also vacate the district court’s ruling as to attorney’s fees, costs, and prejudgment interest.
original_answer: "the district court’s ruling"
new_answer: "the district court’s ruling"
original_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Judge Kobes wrote separately while discussing the MFLSA claim and related issues and said he would also vacate as to attorney's fees, costs, and prejudgment interest "the district court’s ruling".
new_statement: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Judge Kobes wrote separately while discussing the MFLSA claim and related issues and said he would also vacate, as to attorney's fees, costs, and prejudgment interest, "the district court’s ruling".

