----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bruce Cohen brought this lawsuit alleging his employer, Consilio, LLC, failed to pay overtime wages to him and other similarly situated employees.
fact: Before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Bruce Cohen alleged that his employer failed to pay overtime wages to him and other similarly situated employees, and he alleged that his employer was Consilio, LLC.
target:  Consilio, LLC.
probe: Before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Bruce Cohen alleged that his employer failed to pay overtime wages to him and other similarly situated employees, and he alleged that his employer was

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Bruce Cohen brought this lawsuit alleging his employer, Consilio, LLC, failed to pay overtime wages to him and other similarly situated employees.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Bruce Cohen alleged that his employer failed to pay him and other similarly situated employees overtime wages.
target:  overtime wages.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Bruce Cohen alleged that his employer failed to pay him and other similarly situated employees

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen began working for Consilio in 2018 as an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer.
fact: In the case "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," according to the opinion describing Cohen's employment with Consilio, Cohen began working for the company as an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer in 2018.
target:  2018.
probe: In the case "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," according to the opinion describing Cohen's employment with Consilio, Cohen began working for the company as an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer in

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen began working for Consilio in 2018 as an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen began working for Consilio in 2018 as a document reviewer, namely an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer.
target:  an hourly licensed attorney document reviewer.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen began working for Consilio in 2018 as a document reviewer, namely

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In July 2019, Consilio sent an email to Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers, explaining that it would be instituting a new premium overtime policy in August 2019.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Consilio emailed Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers about instituting a new premium overtime policy in July 2019.
target:  July 2019.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Consilio emailed Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers about instituting a new premium overtime policy in

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In July 2019, Consilio sent an email to Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers, explaining that it would be instituting a new premium overtime policy in August 2019.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Consilio’s July 2019 email to Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers said it would be instituting in August 2019 "a new premium overtime policy".
target:  "a new premium overtime policy".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Consilio’s July 2019 email to Cohen and other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers said it would be instituting in August 2019

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The new policy eliminated overtime premium pay and clarified that Cohen and his fellow employees would be paid “at [their] base pay rate” for all hours worked.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio emailed Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers in July 2019 about a new premium overtime policy to take effect in August 2019, the new policy eliminated for Cohen and his fellow employees overtime premium pay.
target:  overtime premium pay.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio emailed Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers in July 2019 about a new premium overtime policy to take effect in August 2019, the new policy eliminated for Cohen and his fellow employees

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The new policy eliminated overtime premium pay and clarified that Cohen and his fellow employees would be paid “at [their] base pay rate” for all hours worked.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Consilio’s July 2019 email announcing a new premium overtime policy effective August 2019 stated that Cohen and the other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers would be paid for all hours worked "at [their] base pay rate".
target:  "at [their] base pay rate".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Consilio’s July 2019 email announcing a new premium overtime policy effective August 2019 stated that Cohen and the other Minnesota-based hourly licensed attorney document reviewers would be paid for all hours worked

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In August 2020, Cohen sued Consilio on behalf of himself and a putative class, alleging that Consilio failed to pay overtime wages owed to him and similarly situated employees.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when Cohen sued Consilio in August 2020 for allegedly failing to pay overtime wages, he purported to represent "himself and a putative class".
target:  "himself and a putative class".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when Cohen sued Consilio in August 2020 for allegedly failing to pay overtime wages, he purported to represent

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In August 2020, Cohen sued Consilio on behalf of himself and a putative class, alleging that Consilio failed to pay overtime wages owed to him and similarly situated employees.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, where Cohen filed suit in August 2020 on behalf of himself and a putative class, he alleged that Consilio failed to pay him and similarly situated employees overtime wages.
target:  overtime wages.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, where Cohen filed suit in August 2020 on behalf of himself and a putative class, he alleged that Consilio failed to pay him and similarly situated employees

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen alleged that Consilio’s actions violated the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA), Minn. Stat. Ann. §§ 181.101, 181.171, subd. 1; Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA), Minn. Stat. Ann. §§ 177.25, 177.27, subd. 8; and Minnesota Wage Theft Act (MWTA), Minn. Stat. Ann. §§ 181.032(f), (d)(4), 181.171, subd. 1, 177.27.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen sued Consilio in August 2020 over alleged unpaid overtime under several Minnesota wage statutes, and the Minnesota statute abbreviated as MPWA that he alleged Consilio violated was Minnesota Payment of Wages Act.
target:  Minnesota Payment of Wages Act.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen sued Consilio in August 2020 over alleged unpaid overtime under several Minnesota wage statutes, and the Minnesota statute abbreviated as MPWA that he alleged Consilio violated was

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen alleged that Consilio’s actions violated the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA), Minn. Stat. Ann. §§ 181.101, 181.171, subd. 1; Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA), Minn. Stat. Ann. §§ 177.25, 177.27, subd. 8; and Minnesota Wage Theft Act (MWTA), Minn. Stat. Ann. §§ 181.032(f), (d)(4), 181.171, subd. 1, 177.27.
fact: In the case Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen sued Consilio in Minnesota state-law wage litigation and alleged violations of several statutes, including the Minnesota statute abbreviated MFLSA, which he claimed Consilio violated: Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act.
target:  Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act.
probe: In the case Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen sued Consilio in Minnesota state-law wage litigation and alleged violations of several statutes, including the Minnesota statute abbreviated MFLSA, which he claimed Consilio violated:

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As remedies, Cohen sought overtime pay, liquidated damages, statutory penalties, and injunctive relief.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen sued Consilio under Minnesota wage statutes, including the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act, and besides overtime pay he sought a remedy of "liquidated damages".
target:  "liquidated damages".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen sued Consilio under Minnesota wage statutes, including the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act, and besides overtime pay he sought a remedy of

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As remedies, Cohen sought overtime pay, liquidated damages, statutory penalties, and injunctive relief.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen sued Consilio on behalf of himself and a putative class under the Minnesota wage statutes, and among the remedies he requested was "injunctive relief".
target:  "injunctive relief".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen sued Consilio on behalf of himself and a putative class under the Minnesota wage statutes, and among the remedies he requested was

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consilio paid Cohen and other Minnesota licensed attorney document reviewers $256,010.01 to cover the overtime wages and liquidated damages demanded pursuant to Cohen’s MFLSA claim.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Cohen sued Consilio under the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA) for alleged unpaid overtime, Consilio later paid Cohen and other Minnesota licensed attorney document reviewers $256,010.01, which covered Cohen’s MFLSA claim for "the overtime wages and liquidated damages".
target:  "the overtime wages and liquidated damages".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Cohen sued Consilio under the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA) for alleged unpaid overtime, Consilio later paid Cohen and other Minnesota licensed attorney document reviewers $256,010.01, which covered Cohen’s MFLSA claim for

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As part of these payments, Cohen personally received $3,225.21 in overtime and $462 in liquidated damages.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio paid amounts to cover the overtime wages and liquidated damages sought under Cohen’s Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act claim, Cohen personally received $3,225.21.
target:  $3,225.21.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio paid amounts to cover the overtime wages and liquidated damages sought under Cohen’s Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act claim, Cohen personally received

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As part of these payments, Cohen personally received $3,225.21 in overtime and $462 in liquidated damages.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, where Consilio paid Minnesota licensed attorney document reviewers amounts intended to cover overtime wages and liquidated damages tied to Cohen’s MFLSA claim, Cohen personally received in liquidated damages $462.
target:  $462.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, where Consilio paid Minnesota licensed attorney document reviewers amounts intended to cover overtime wages and liquidated damages tied to Cohen’s MFLSA claim, Cohen personally received in liquidated damages

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The parties also stipulated that Cohen had “been paid for all overtime wages he alleges he is owed in this lawsuit,” and that “Cohen does not dispute that he has also been paid any liquidated damages to which he alleges he is entitled under the [MFLSA].”
fact: In the case "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," Cohen sued Consilio under Minnesota wage statutes, including the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act, and the parties’ stipulation stated that he had been paid for all overtime wages.
target:  all overtime wages.
probe: In the case "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," Cohen sued Consilio under Minnesota wage statutes, including the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act, and the parties’ stipulation stated that he had been paid for

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen argued he was entitled to $172,080 in average daily wage penalties under the MPWA, $42,000 in penalties under the MFLSA, and $42,000 in penalties under the MWTA.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after the parties agreed that Cohen had been paid the overtime wages and liquidated damages he sought, Cohen nevertheless claimed statutory penalties under several Minnesota wage laws, and he argued that he was entitled to average daily wage penalties under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA) in the amount of "$172,080".
target:  "$172,080".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after the parties agreed that Cohen had been paid the overtime wages and liquidated damages he sought, Cohen nevertheless claimed statutory penalties under several Minnesota wage laws, and he argued that he was entitled to average daily wage penalties under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA) in the amount of

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen argued he was entitled to $172,080 in average daily wage penalties under the MPWA, $42,000 in penalties under the MFLSA, and $42,000 in penalties under the MWTA.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio paid the claimed overtime wages and liquidated damages and Cohen still sought statutory penalties, Cohen argued that he was entitled to $172,080 in average daily wage penalties under "the MPWA".
target:  "the MPWA".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio paid the claimed overtime wages and liquidated damages and Cohen still sought statutory penalties, Cohen argued that he was entitled to $172,080 in average daily wage penalties under

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following Consilio’s payments, the parties stipulated “that the most expedient and efficient path forward [would be] for the Court to hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion on [the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims] before any further discovery or litigation.”
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio made payments and before any further discovery or litigation, the parties stipulated that the most expedient and efficient path forward for the Court on the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims would be to "hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion".
target:  "hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio made payments and before any further discovery or litigation, the parties stipulated that the most expedient and efficient path forward for the Court on the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims would be to

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following Consilio’s payments, the parties stipulated “that the most expedient and efficient path forward [would be] for the Court to hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion on [the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims] before any further discovery or litigation.”
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio made payments and the parties agreed on the next procedural step, they stipulated that the Court should hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion before any further discovery or litigation.
target:  any further discovery or litigation.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after Consilio made payments and the parties agreed on the next procedural step, they stipulated that the Court should hear and decide Defendants’ summary judgment motion before

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen and Consilio “acknowledge[d] that, if the Court grant[ed] Defendants’ summary judgment motion in full, no claims w[ould] remain and the case w[ould] be fully resolved.”
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after the parties stipulated that the court should decide the defendants’ summary judgment motion on the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims before further litigation, Cohen and Consilio acknowledged that if the court granted the defendants’ summary judgment motion in full, there would be no claims.
target:  no claims.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after the parties stipulated that the court should decide the defendants’ summary judgment motion on the MPWA, MFLSA, and MWTA claims before further litigation, Cohen and Consilio acknowledged that if the court granted the defendants’ summary judgment motion in full, there would be

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio de novo, “viewing the evidence and the inferences that may be reasonably drawn from the evidence in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party.” Karlen v. Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc., 766 F.3d 863, 866 (8th Cir. 2014) (quoting Petroski v. H & R Block Enters., LLC, 750 F.3d 976, 978 (8th Cir. 2014)).
fact: In "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," the court’s standard of review when reviewing the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio is de novo.
target:  de novo.
probe: In "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," the court’s standard of review when reviewing the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio is

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio de novo, “viewing the evidence and the inferences that may be reasonably drawn from the evidence in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party.” Karlen v. Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc., 766 F.3d 863, 866 (8th Cir. 2014) (quoting Petroski v. H & R Block Enters., LLC, 750 F.3d 976, 978 (8th Cir. 2014)).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when reviewing the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio de novo, the court views the evidence and reasonable inferences in favor of "the nonmoving party".
target:  "the nonmoving party".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when reviewing the district court’s grant of summary judgment to Consilio de novo, the court views the evidence and reasonable inferences in favor of

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Summary judgment is proper if there are no genuine issues of material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Placzek v. Mayo Clinic, 18 F.4th 1010, 1014 (8th Cir. 2021) (quoting Green Plains Otter Tail, LLC v. Pro-Env’t, Inc., 953 F.3d 541, 545 (8th Cir. 2020)).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while reviewing the district court’s grant of summary judgment de novo, the Eighth Circuit stated that summary judgment is proper only when there are no genuine issues of material fact and the moving party is entitled to "judgment as a matter of law".
target:  "judgment as a matter of law".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while reviewing the district court’s grant of summary judgment de novo, the Eighth Circuit stated that summary judgment is proper only when there are no genuine issues of material fact and the moving party is entitled to

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The parties dispute whether Cohen may seek “average daily wage penalties” under §§ 181.171 and 181.101.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court first addressed Cohen’s MPWA claim, the parties disputed whether Cohen could seek relief under Minnesota Statutes §§ 181.171 and 181.101 in the form of average daily wage penalties.
target:  average daily wage penalties.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court first addressed Cohen’s MPWA claim, the parties disputed whether Cohen could seek relief under Minnesota Statutes §§ 181.171 and 181.101 in the form of

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Section 181.171 provides that “[a] person may bring a civil action seeking redress for violations” of certain provisions of the MPWA, including § 181.101, and that when an employer “is found to have violated” such a provision, it will be “liable for compensatory damages and other appropriate relief.” Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.171, subd. 1.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit discussed Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA) and noted that, according to Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.171, subd. 1, a person may seek redress for violations of certain MPWA provisions, including § 181.101, by bringing a civil action.
target:  a civil action.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit discussed Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA) and noted that, according to Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.171, subd. 1, a person may seek redress for violations of certain MPWA provisions, including § 181.101, by bringing

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Section 181.171 provides that “[a] person may bring a civil action seeking redress for violations” of certain provisions of the MPWA, including § 181.101, and that when an employer “is found to have violated” such a provision, it will be “liable for compensatory damages and other appropriate relief.” Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.171, subd. 1.
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Cohen’s Minnesota Payment of Wages Act claim under Minn. Stat. § 181.171, subd. 1, the statute says an employer found to have violated one of the covered provisions, including § 181.101, is liable for "compensatory damages and other appropriate relief".
target:  "compensatory damages and other appropriate relief".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Cohen’s Minnesota Payment of Wages Act claim under Minn. Stat. § 181.171, subd. 1, the statute says an employer found to have violated one of the covered provisions, including § 181.101, is liable for

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An employee may also recover civil penalties or damages, so long as they are “provided for in the section” of the MPWA that the employer allegedly violates.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the court explained that an employee may recover civil penalties or damages under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA) only if the violated MPWA section itself allows recovery “provided for in the section”.
target:  “provided for in the section”.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the court explained that an employee may recover civil penalties or damages under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA) only if the violated MPWA section itself allows recovery

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An employee may also recover civil penalties or damages, so long as they are “provided for in the section” of the MPWA that the employer allegedly violates.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit held that, for an employee to recover civil penalties or damages, the section that provides for those remedies must be a section of “the MPWA”.
target:  “the MPWA”.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit held that, for an employee to recover civil penalties or damages, the section that provides for those remedies must be a section of

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Id. (“An employer who is found to have violated the above sections is liable to the aggrieved party for the civil penalties or damages provided for in the section violated.”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and Minn. Stat. § 181.171, an employer found to have violated the covered sections is liable to "the aggrieved party".
target:  "the aggrieved party".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and Minn. Stat. § 181.171, an employer found to have violated the covered sections is liable to

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Id. (“An employer who is found to have violated the above sections is liable to the aggrieved party for the civil penalties or damages provided for in the section violated.”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Cohen’s Minnesota Payment of Wages Act claim under Minn. Stat. § 181.171, an employer found to have violated the covered sections may be liable for "the civil penalties or damages".
target:  "the civil penalties or damages".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Cohen’s Minnesota Payment of Wages Act claim under Minn. Stat. § 181.171, an employer found to have violated the covered sections may be liable for

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen alleges Consilio violated § 181.101 of the MPWA, and argues that “the plain language and unambiguous meaning of [§ 181.101]” authorizes employees to seek average daily wage penalties.
fact: In the case Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA), Cohen alleged that Consilio violated "§ 181.101".
target:  "§ 181.101".
probe: In the case Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act (MPWA), Cohen alleged that Consilio violated

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen alleges Consilio violated § 181.101 of the MPWA, and argues that “the plain language and unambiguous meaning of [§ 181.101]” authorizes employees to seek average daily wage penalties.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen argued that the plain language and unambiguous meaning of Minn. Stat. § 181.101 authorizes employees to seek "average daily wage penalties".
target:  "average daily wage penalties".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen argued that the plain language and unambiguous meaning of Minn. Stat. § 181.101 authorizes employees to seek

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co., 869 N.W.2d 31, 33 (Minn. 2015) (“When the language of a statute is plain and unambiguous, it is assumed to manifest legislative intent and must be given effect.” (quoting Burkstrand v. Burkstrand, 632 N.W.2d 206, 210 (Minn. 2001))).
fact: In the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," which cited Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co. while interpreting the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the kind of statutory language that is assumed to manifest legislative intent and must be given effect is "plain and unambiguous".
target:  "plain and unambiguous".
probe: In the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," which cited Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co. while interpreting the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the kind of statutory language that is assumed to manifest legislative intent and must be given effect is

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co., 869 N.W.2d 31, 33 (Minn. 2015) (“When the language of a statute is plain and unambiguous, it is assumed to manifest legislative intent and must be given effect.” (quoting Burkstrand v. Burkstrand, 632 N.W.2d 206, 210 (Minn. 2001))).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while addressing Cohen’s Minnesota Payment of Wages Act claim, Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co. was cited for the rule that plain and unambiguous statutory language must be given effect, and Allan quoted that principle in Burkstrand v. Burkstrand.
target:  Burkstrand v. Burkstrand.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while addressing Cohen’s Minnesota Payment of Wages Act claim, Allan v. R.D. Offutt Co. was cited for the rule that plain and unambiguous statutory language must be given effect, and Allan quoted that principle in

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, penalties are only available if the Commissioner first “serve[s] a demand for payment [of wages] on behalf of an employee.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," before penalties are available under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and Minn. Stat. § 181.101, a demand for payment of wages on behalf of an employee must first be served by the Commissioner.
target:  the Commissioner.
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," before penalties are available under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and Minn. Stat. § 181.101, a demand for payment of wages on behalf of an employee must first be served by

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Thereafter, “if payment of wages is not made within ten days of service of the demand, the commissioner may charge and collect the wages earned . . . and a penalty.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minnesota Statutes section 181.101 and the Commissioner's authority after serving a demand for payment of wages on behalf of an employee, the Commissioner may charge and collect the wages earned and a penalty if payment is not made within ten days of service of the demand.
target:  within ten days of service of the demand.
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minnesota Statutes section 181.101 and the Commissioner's authority after serving a demand for payment of wages on behalf of an employee, the Commissioner may charge and collect the wages earned and a penalty if payment is not made

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Thereafter, “if payment of wages is not made within ten days of service of the demand, the commissioner may charge and collect the wages earned . . . and a penalty.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minn. Stat. § 181.101(a) under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the person who may charge and collect the wages earned and a penalty if payment is not made within ten days after service of the demand is "the commissioner".
target:  "the commissioner".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minn. Stat. § 181.101(a) under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the person who may charge and collect the wages earned and a penalty if payment is not made within ten days after service of the demand is

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, any “[m]oney collected by the commissioner must be paid to the employee concerned.” Id. (emphasis added); see also Milner v. Farmers Ins. Exch., 748 N.W.2d 608, 617 (Minn. 2008).
fact: In its discussion of the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and Minn. Stat. § 181.101 in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the opinion states that any money collected by the commissioner must be paid to "the employee concerned".
target:  "the employee concerned".
probe: In its discussion of the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and Minn. Stat. § 181.101 in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the opinion states that any money collected by the commissioner must be paid to

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, any “[m]oney collected by the commissioner must be paid to the employee concerned.” Id. (emphasis added); see also Milner v. Farmers Ins. Exch., 748 N.W.2d 608, 617 (Minn. 2008).
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.101(a) under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the official that collects the money that must then be paid to the employee concerned is "the commissioner".
target:  "the commissioner".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.101(a) under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the official that collects the money that must then be paid to the employee concerned is

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As to the employee, the statute reserves only the ability to “prosecut[e] a claim for wages.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and the remedies available under Minn. Stat. § 181.101, the statute reserves only to the employee the ability to "prosecut[e] a claim for wages".
target:  "prosecut[e] a claim for wages".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act and the remedies available under Minn. Stat. § 181.101, the statute reserves only to the employee the ability to

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As to the employee, the statute reserves only the ability to “prosecut[e] a claim for wages.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minnesota Statutes section 181.101 of the MPWA and the distinction between who may seek penalties versus wages, the statute reserves only the ability to "prosecut[e] a claim for wages" to "the employee".
target:  "the employee".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Minnesota Statutes section 181.101 of the MPWA and the distinction between who may seek penalties versus wages, the statute reserves only the ability to "prosecut[e] a claim for wages" to

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.101(a) (providing “[t]his section does not prevent an employee from prosecuting a claim for wages” and “[t]his section provides a substantive right for employees to the payment of wages . . . as well as commissions, in addition to the right to be paid at certain times”).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while analyzing Cohen’s MPWA claim, the court noted that Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.101(a) says it does not prevent an employee from prosecuting "a claim for wages"
target:  "a claim for wages"
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while analyzing Cohen’s MPWA claim, the court noted that Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.101(a) says it does not prevent an employee from prosecuting

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.101(a) (providing “[t]his section does not prevent an employee from prosecuting a claim for wages” and “[t]his section provides a substantive right for employees to the payment of wages . . . as well as commissions, in addition to the right to be paid at certain times”).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when discussing Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.101(a) and Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the opinion states that the section gives employees, in addition to the right to be paid at certain times, "the payment of wages . . . as well as commissions".
target:  "the payment of wages . . . as well as commissions".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when discussing Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.101(a) and Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the opinion states that the section gives employees, in addition to the right to be paid at certain times,

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, the Minnesota legislature, if it wished, knew how to empower an aggrieved employee with a statutory right to obtain penalties.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while addressing whether the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act allowed an employee to seek average daily wage penalties under Minn. Stat. §§ 181.171 and 181.101, the court said that the actor who knew how to empower an aggrieved employee with a statutory right to obtain penalties was "the Minnesota legislature"
target:  "the Minnesota legislature"
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while addressing whether the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act allowed an employee to seek average daily wage penalties under Minn. Stat. §§ 181.171 and 181.101, the court said that the actor who knew how to empower an aggrieved employee with a statutory right to obtain penalties was

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.13(a) (explaining that upon a discharged employee’s demand, such employee may recover unpaid wages or commissions as well as “may charge and collect a penalty”); id. § 181.14, subd. 2 (same for employees who quit or resign); see also Lagasse v. Horton, 982 N.W.2d 189, 199 n.2 (Minn. 2022) (explaining “that the Legislature’s action in one statute but inaction in another shows that the Legislature ‘knows how’ to accomplish a particular objective if it wishes to do so” (citing In re Hubbard, 778 N.W.2d 313, 323 (Minn. 2010))).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit pointed to Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.13(a), which provides that after a discharged employee makes a demand, the employee may recover unpaid wages or commissions and then may charge and collect a penalty.
target:  may charge and collect a penalty.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit pointed to Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.13(a), which provides that after a discharged employee makes a demand, the employee may recover unpaid wages or commissions and then

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Minn. Stat. Ann. § 181.13(a) (explaining that upon a discharged employee’s demand, such employee may recover unpaid wages or commissions as well as “may charge and collect a penalty”); id. § 181.14, subd. 2 (same for employees who quit or resign); see also Lagasse v. Horton, 982 N.W.2d 189, 199 n.2 (Minn. 2022) (explaining “that the Legislature’s action in one statute but inaction in another shows that the Legislature ‘knows how’ to accomplish a particular objective if it wishes to do so” (citing In re Hubbard, 778 N.W.2d 313, 323 (Minn. 2010))).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit quoted Lagasse v. Horton for the proposition that the Legislature’s action in one statute but inaction in another shows that the Legislature knows how to "accomplish a particular objective".
target:  "accomplish a particular objective".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit quoted Lagasse v. Horton for the proposition that the Legislature’s action in one statute but inaction in another shows that the Legislature knows how to

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because we conclude that only the Commissioner may seek daily average wage penalties under § 181.101, the district court did not err.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the Eighth Circuit reviewed the district court’s summary judgment ruling on Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the opinion stated that under Minn. Stat. § 181.101, daily average wage penalties may be sought by only the Commissioner.
target:  only the Commissioner.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the Eighth Circuit reviewed the district court’s summary judgment ruling on Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Payment of Wages Act, the opinion stated that under Minn. Stat. § 181.101, daily average wage penalties may be sought by

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because we conclude that only the Commissioner may seek daily average wage penalties under § 181.101, the district court did not err.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after concluding in its review of the district court's summary judgment ruling that only the Commissioner may seek daily average wage penalties under Minn. Stat. § 181.101, the court said that the district court did not err.
target:  the district court did not err.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after concluding in its review of the district court's summary judgment ruling that only the Commissioner may seek daily average wage penalties under Minn. Stat. § 181.101, the court said that

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Hull v. ConvergeOne, Inc., 570 F. Supp. 3d 681, 695 (D. Minn. 2021) (explaining that under § 181.101(a), “the ability to enforce a penalty is limited to the [Commissioner], with any collected funds going to the employee”).
fact: According to the opinion in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, which addressed whether average daily wage penalties under Minnesota Statutes § 181.101(a) may be sought by an employee, the ability to enforce a penalty under § 181.101(a) is limited to "the [Commissioner]".
target:  "the [Commissioner]".
probe: According to the opinion in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, which addressed whether average daily wage penalties under Minnesota Statutes § 181.101(a) may be sought by an employee, the ability to enforce a penalty under § 181.101(a) is limited to

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Hull v. ConvergeOne, Inc., 570 F. Supp. 3d 681, 695 (D. Minn. 2021) (explaining that under § 181.101(a), “the ability to enforce a penalty is limited to the [Commissioner], with any collected funds going to the employee”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," the Eighth Circuit discussed Minn. Stat. § 181.101(a) and cited Hull v. ConvergeOne, Inc.; under that statute, if the Commissioner collects penalty funds, those collected funds go to "the employee".
target:  "the employee".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," the Eighth Circuit discussed Minn. Stat. § 181.101(a) and cited Hull v. ConvergeOne, Inc.; under that statute, if the Commissioner collects penalty funds, those collected funds go to

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As to his MFLSA claim, Cohen stipulated that Consilio has compensated him for all overtime wages and liquidated damages that he is owed under the MFLSA.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, regarding Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA), Cohen stipulated that Consilio had already compensated him for all overtime wages and liquidated damages.
target:  all overtime wages and liquidated damages.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, regarding Cohen’s claim under the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act (MFLSA), Cohen stipulated that Consilio had already compensated him for

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The parties agree that any statutory penalties imposed—unlike overtime wages and liquidated damages—are payable to the Commissioner, not to Cohen.
fact: In the discussion of Cohen’s MFLSA claim in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the parties agreed that any statutory penalties imposed would be payable to overtime wages and liquidated damages, rather than the Commissioner.
target:  the Commissioner.
probe: In the discussion of Cohen’s MFLSA claim in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the parties agreed that any statutory penalties imposed would be payable to overtime wages and liquidated damages, rather than

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The parties agree that any statutory penalties imposed—unlike overtime wages and liquidated damages—are payable to the Commissioner, not to Cohen.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the opinion contrasted statutory penalties under Cohen’s MFLSA claim with forms of compensation that were payable differently, namely "overtime wages and liquidated damages".
target:  "overtime wages and liquidated damages".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the opinion contrasted statutory penalties under Cohen’s MFLSA claim with forms of compensation that were payable differently, namely

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Civil penalties, even if they are paid to the government, may “afford redress to citizen plaintiffs who are injured or threatened with injury as a consequence of ongoing unlawful conduct” because such penalties may “encourage defendants to discontinue current violations and deter them from committing future ones.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," civil penalties may afford redress to citizen plaintiffs who are injured or threatened with injury as a consequence of ongoing unlawful conduct.
target:  ongoing unlawful conduct.
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," civil penalties may afford redress to citizen plaintiffs who are injured or threatened with injury as a consequence of

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Civil penalties, even if they are paid to the government, may “afford redress to citizen plaintiffs who are injured or threatened with injury as a consequence of ongoing unlawful conduct” because such penalties may “encourage defendants to discontinue current violations and deter them from committing future ones.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing whether civil penalties can provide redress even if paid to the government, those penalties may encourage defendants to discontinue current violations.
target:  current violations.
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing whether civil penalties can provide redress even if paid to the government, those penalties may encourage defendants to discontinue

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But “a plaintiff must demonstrate standing for each claim he seeks to press and for each form of relief that is sought.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Article III jurisdiction over Cohen’s request for statutory penalties under the MFLSA, a plaintiff must demonstrate standing for each claim he seeks to press and each form of relief.
target:  each form of relief.
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing Article III jurisdiction over Cohen’s request for statutory penalties under the MFLSA, a plaintiff must demonstrate standing for each claim he seeks to press and

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And, as we have explained, “[t]he requisite personal interest that must exist at the commencement of the litigation (standing) must continue throughout its existence (mootness)[.]” Sisney v. Kaemingk, 15 F.4th 1181, 1194 (8th Cir. 2021) (quoting Arizonans for Off. Eng. v. Arizona, 520 U.S. 43, 68 n.22 (1997)).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the Eighth Circuit discussed jurisdiction over Cohen’s claim for statutory penalties, it referred to the requisite personal interest that must exist at the commencement of the litigation as "standing".
target:  "standing".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the Eighth Circuit discussed jurisdiction over Cohen’s claim for statutory penalties, it referred to the requisite personal interest that must exist at the commencement of the litigation as

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And, as we have explained, “[t]he requisite personal interest that must exist at the commencement of the litigation (standing) must continue throughout its existence (mootness)[.]” Sisney v. Kaemingk, 15 F.4th 1181, 1194 (8th Cir. 2021) (quoting Arizonans for Off. Eng. v. Arizona, 520 U.S. 43, 68 n.22 (1997)).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when discussing jurisdiction over Cohen’s MFLSA claim, the court referred to the issue as mootness.
target:  mootness.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when discussing jurisdiction over Cohen’s MFLSA claim, the court referred to the issue as

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen’s claim for penalties “might become moot if subsequent events made it absolutely clear that the allegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be expected to recur,” Friends of the Earth, Inc., 528 U.S. at 189 (quoting United States v. Concentrated Phosphate Exp. Ass’n, 393 U.S. 199, 203 (1968)), although “[i]t is well settled that ‘a defendant’s voluntary cessation of a challenged practice does not deprive a federal court of its power to determine the legality of the practice,’” id. (quoting City of Mesquite v. Aladdin’s Castle, Inc., 455 U.S. 283, 289 (1982)).
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," and the mootness standard quoted from Friends of the Earth, Cohen’s claim for statutory penalties under the MFLSA could become moot only if it is absolutely clear that “the allegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be expected to recur”.
target:  “the allegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be expected to recur”.
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," and the mootness standard quoted from Friends of the Earth, Cohen’s claim for statutory penalties under the MFLSA could become moot only if it is absolutely clear that

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Cohen’s claim for penalties “might become moot if subsequent events made it absolutely clear that the allegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be expected to recur,” Friends of the Earth, Inc., 528 U.S. at 189 (quoting United States v. Concentrated Phosphate Exp. Ass’n, 393 U.S. 199, 203 (1968)), although “[i]t is well settled that ‘a defendant’s voluntary cessation of a challenged practice does not deprive a federal court of its power to determine the legality of the practice,’” id. (quoting City of Mesquite v. Aladdin’s Castle, Inc., 455 U.S. 283, 289 (1982)).
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when the Eighth Circuit discussed mootness and Cohen’s claim for statutory penalties, a defendant’s voluntary cessation of a challenged practice does not deprive a federal court of “its power to determine the legality of the practice”.
target:  “its power to determine the legality of the practice”.
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when the Eighth Circuit discussed mootness and Cohen’s claim for statutory penalties, a defendant’s voluntary cessation of a challenged practice does not deprive a federal court of

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to Consilio’s motion for summary judgment, the parties agreed that Cohen had been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, but whether Consilio’s violative overtime policy is still in place remains in dispute.
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," in the discussion of Cohen’s MFLSA claim and before Consilio moved for summary judgment, the parties agreed Cohen had already been paid "overtime wages and liquidated damages".
target:  "overtime wages and liquidated damages".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," in the discussion of Cohen’s MFLSA claim and before Consilio moved for summary judgment, the parties agreed Cohen had already been paid

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to Consilio’s motion for summary judgment, the parties agreed that Cohen had been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, but whether Consilio’s violative overtime policy is still in place remains in dispute.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while reviewing the district court’s summary judgment ruling on Cohen’s MFLSA claim, the Eighth Circuit noted that although the parties agreed Cohen had been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages before Consilio moved for summary judgment, the remaining dispute concerned the violative overtime policy.
target:  violative overtime policy.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, while reviewing the district court’s summary judgment ruling on Cohen’s MFLSA claim, the Eighth Circuit noted that although the parties agreed Cohen had been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages before Consilio moved for summary judgment, the remaining dispute concerned the

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, if Consilio’s policy is no longer in place and it is “absolutely clear” that its wrongful conduct will not recur, Cohen’s MFLSA claim may in fact be moot.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit considered whether Cohen’s remaining MFLSA claim for civil penalties would still present a live controversy after he had already been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, and if Consilio’s violative overtime policy is no longer in place and it is absolutely clear that the wrongful conduct will not recur, Cohen’s MFLSA claim may be moot.
target:  moot.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit considered whether Cohen’s remaining MFLSA claim for civil penalties would still present a live controversy after he had already been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, and if Consilio’s violative overtime policy is no longer in place and it is absolutely clear that the wrongful conduct will not recur, Cohen’s MFLSA claim may be

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, if Consilio’s policy is no longer in place and it is “absolutely clear” that its wrongful conduct will not recur, Cohen’s MFLSA claim may in fact be moot.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit explained that Cohen’s MFLSA claim for civil penalties might be moot after he had already been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, but only if it is absolutely clear that its wrongful conduct will not recur.
target:  that its wrongful conduct will not recur.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit explained that Cohen’s MFLSA claim for civil penalties might be moot after he had already been paid all overtime wages and liquidated damages, but only if it is absolutely clear

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And federal courts are not “license[d] to retain jurisdiction over cases in which one or both of the parties plainly lack a continuing interest[.]” Id. at 192.
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing whether Cohen’s MFLSA claim for civil penalties might be moot, the court said federal courts are not "license[d] to retain" cases in which one or both parties plainly lack a continuing interest. The court was referring to jurisdiction.
target:  jurisdiction.
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when discussing whether Cohen’s MFLSA claim for civil penalties might be moot, the court said federal courts are not "license[d] to retain" cases in which one or both parties plainly lack a continuing interest. The court was referring to

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment as to Cohen’s MFLSA claim and remand for the district court to determine its jurisdiction.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after raising a jurisdictional concern about whether Cohen’s MFLSA claim for statutory penalties might be moot, the appellate court entered the following disposition: vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment
target:  vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after raising a jurisdictional concern about whether Cohen’s MFLSA claim for statutory penalties might be moot, the appellate court entered the following disposition:

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we vacate the district court’s grant of summary judgment as to Cohen’s MFLSA claim and remand for the district court to determine its jurisdiction.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after vacating the district court’s grant of summary judgment on Cohen’s MFLSA claim because of concerns about mootness and standing, the appellate court remanded the case to the district court to determine its jurisdiction.
target:  to determine its jurisdiction.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after vacating the district court’s grant of summary judgment on Cohen’s MFLSA claim because of concerns about mootness and standing, the appellate court remanded the case to the district court

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We next address Cohen’s MWTA claim alleging that Consilio failed to provide statutorily required notice of a change in its overtime policy, and that as such he is entitled to penalties.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when discussing Cohen’s allegation that Consilio failed to provide the statutorily required notice of a change in its overtime policy, the court next addressed the "MWTA claim".
target:  "MWTA claim".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when discussing Cohen’s allegation that Consilio failed to provide the statutorily required notice of a change in its overtime policy, the court next addressed the

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We next address Cohen’s MWTA claim alleging that Consilio failed to provide statutorily required notice of a change in its overtime policy, and that as such he is entitled to penalties.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen alleged that when Consilio changed its overtime policy as part of his MWTA claim, it failed to provide "statutorily required notice".
target:  "statutorily required notice".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Cohen alleged that when Consilio changed its overtime policy as part of his MWTA claim, it failed to provide

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With no meaningful argument in support of reversal, we will not disturb the district court’s order dismissing this claim.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court addressed Cohen’s MWTA claim and affirmed the district court’s dismissal of that claim, it said that Cohen had failed to support reversal with what the court required, namely meaningful argument.
target:  meaningful argument.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the court addressed Cohen’s MWTA claim and affirmed the district court’s dismissal of that claim, it said that Cohen had failed to support reversal with what the court required, namely

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With no meaningful argument in support of reversal, we will not disturb the district court’s order dismissing this claim.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after concluding that Cohen offered no meaningful argument in support of reversal of his MWTA claim, the court said it would not disturb the district court’s order dismissing this claim.
target:  the district court’s order dismissing this claim.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after concluding that Cohen offered no meaningful argument in support of reversal of his MWTA claim, the court said it would not disturb

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Milligan v. City of Red Oak, 230 F.3d 355, 360 (8th Cir. 2000) (“[I]nasmuch as [defendant’s] brief does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority, he has waived the issue and we do not address it.”).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit cited Milligan v. City of Red Oak in declining to address an issue on appeal, because under Milligan a defendant has waived an issue when he does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority.
target:  does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit cited Milligan v. City of Red Oak in declining to address an issue on appeal, because under Milligan a defendant has waived an issue when he

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Milligan v. City of Red Oak, 230 F.3d 355, 360 (8th Cir. 2000) (“[I]nasmuch as [defendant’s] brief does not support his assertion with any argument or legal authority, he has waived the issue and we do not address it.”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," the court cited Milligan v. City of Red Oak for the rule that when a party's brief does not support an assertion with argument or legal authority, the issue is waived, and under the quoted language from Milligan, the court says that on a waived issue "we do not address it".
target:  "we do not address it".
probe: According to the opinion in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," the court cited Milligan v. City of Red Oak for the rule that when a party's brief does not support an assertion with argument or legal authority, the issue is waived, and under the quoted language from Milligan, the court says that on a waived issue

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As to Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, he argues only that he is entitled to “an affirmative injunctive order that Consilio rescind its illegal overtime policy.”
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, on Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, Cohen argued that Consilio should be required to rescind its illegal overtime policy.
target:  its illegal overtime policy.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, on Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, Cohen argued that Consilio should be required to rescind

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his complaint, Cohen sought certain specific forms of injunctive relief, only to later change course and request different relief—withdrawing the 2019 policy—in his summary judgment briefing.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, he later requested in his summary judgment briefing withdrawing the 2019 policy.
target:  withdrawing the 2019 policy.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when addressing Cohen’s claim for injunctive relief, he later requested in his summary judgment briefing

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his complaint, Cohen sought certain specific forms of injunctive relief, only to later change course and request different relief—withdrawing the 2019 policy—in his summary judgment briefing.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the Eighth Circuit addressed Cohen’s injunctive-relief claim, it noted that he moved beyond the specific injunctive relief requested in his complaint and later sought different relief, including withdrawal of the 2019 policy, in "his summary judgment briefing".
target:  "his summary judgment briefing".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, when the Eighth Circuit addressed Cohen’s injunctive-relief claim, it noted that he moved beyond the specific injunctive relief requested in his complaint and later sought different relief, including withdrawal of the 2019 policy, in

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See InfoDeli, LLC, 136 F.4th at 801 n.6 (8th Cir. 2025) (explaining that “[n]ew claims are properly raised through amended complaints, not opposition briefs”); see also Fed. R. Civ. P. 15(a).
fact: In "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when the Eighth Circuit cited InfoDeli, LLC in rejecting a request first made in summary judgment briefing, it stated that new claims are properly raised through amended complaints.
target:  amended complaints.
probe: In "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," when the Eighth Circuit cited InfoDeli, LLC in rejecting a request first made in summary judgment briefing, it stated that new claims are properly raised through

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See InfoDeli, LLC, 136 F.4th at 801 n.6 (8th Cir. 2025) (explaining that “[n]ew claims are properly raised through amended complaints, not opposition briefs”); see also Fed. R. Civ. P. 15(a).
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit cited InfoDeli, LLC and Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 15(a) for the proposition that new claims must be presented through amended complaints, not opposition briefs.
target:  opposition briefs.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the Eighth Circuit cited InfoDeli, LLC and Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 15(a) for the proposition that new claims must be presented through amended complaints, not

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We vacate the district court’s order regarding Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA and remand for further proceedings.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the court’s action with respect to the district court’s order on Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA was to vacate the district court’s order.
target:  vacate the district court’s order.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, the court’s action with respect to the district court’s order on Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA was to

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We vacate the district court’s order regarding Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA and remand for further proceedings.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after vacating the district court’s order regarding Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA, the court ordered further proceedings.
target:  further proceedings.
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after vacating the district court’s order regarding Cohen’s claim under the MFLSA, the court ordered

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: I am not convinced that Cohen has standing to seek statutory penalties under Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U.S. 167 (2000).
fact: In Judge Kobes’s special concurrence in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after the court vacated and remanded Cohen’s MFLSA claim, he explained that under Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U.S. 167 (2000), Cohen was seeking standing to obtain "statutory penalties"
target:  "statutory penalties"
probe: In Judge Kobes’s special concurrence in Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, after the court vacated and remanded Cohen’s MFLSA claim, he explained that under Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U.S. 167 (2000), Cohen was seeking standing to obtain

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But I also vacate the district court’s ruling as to attorney’s fees, costs, and prejudgment interest.
fact: According to Judge Kobes’s special concurrence in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," besides the MFLSA claim, he says the district court’s ruling should also be vacated as to "attorney’s fees, costs, and prejudgment interest"
target:  "attorney’s fees, costs, and prejudgment interest"
probe: According to Judge Kobes’s special concurrence in "Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC," besides the MFLSA claim, he says the district court’s ruling should also be vacated as to

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But I also vacate the district court’s ruling as to attorney’s fees, costs, and prejudgment interest.
fact: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Judge Kobes wrote separately while discussing the MFLSA claim and related issues and said he would also vacate, as to attorney's fees, costs, and prejudgment interest, "the district court’s ruling".
target:  "the district court’s ruling".
probe: In Bruce Charles Cohen v. Consilio, LLC, Judge Kobes wrote separately while discussing the MFLSA claim and related issues and said he would also vacate, as to attorney's fees, costs, and prejudgment interest,

