\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

### How does the iterative data collection pipeline work and why is domain-based annotation needed?
Question:
The DeepSeekMath paper describes an iterative data collection pipeline using a fastText classifier. They start with OpenWebMath as a seed, train a classifier, and iteratively collect more data. After the first iteration, they organize Common Crawl into 'domains' (web pages sharing the same base URL), identify domains where >10% of pages were collected, manually annotate URLs within those domains, and add uncollected pages to the seed corpus.

I'm confused about a few things:
1. Why is the domain-based approach needed? If the fastText classifier already recalls math pages, why can't they just lower the threshold to get more pages?
2. What exactly does 'manually annotate the URLs associated with mathematical content within these identified domains' mean? Are they annotating URL patterns like `mathoverflow.net/questions`?
3. The paper says after 4 iterations, they reach 120B tokens and 98% of data was already collected in the 3rd iteration. Does this mean the classifier converged, or that they exhausted the math content in Common Crawl?
Answer:
The domain-based approach addresses a fundamental limitation of the fastText classifier that lowering the threshold cannot fix: the classifier's recall is bounded by the diversity of its positive training examples. The paper explicitly notes that after the first iteration, "numerous mathematical web pages remain uncollected, mainly because the fastText model is trained on a set of positive examples that lacks sufficient diversity." Since the initial classifier is trained on OpenWebMath as positive examples, it learns to recognize pages that *look like* OpenWebMath pages. Lowering the score threshold would indeed recall more pages, but those pages would still be biased toward the same style of mathematical content that OpenWebMath contains—it would just be admitting lower-quality or lower-relevance pages that happen to score above the reduced threshold. The core problem is that there are entire *categories* of mathematical web sources (different forums, educational sites, non-English pages, etc.) whose content looks stylistically different from OpenWebMath and thus scores low regardless of being genuinely mathematical. The domain-based approach circumvents this by discovering new *types* of math sources structurally—any domain where over $10\%$ of pages were already collected is likely a math-focused website—and then deliberately adding uncollected pages from those domains to the seed corpus. This expands the diversity of positive training examples, allowing the retrained classifier to recognize a broader range of mathematical content in subsequent iterations.

Regarding your second question, the manual annotation is indeed about identifying URL paths within domains that contain mathematical content. The paper gives the example of `mathoverflow.net/questions` within the domain `mathoverflow.net`. Not every path under a math-related domain necessarily contains math content—there might be `mathoverflow.net/users`, `mathoverflow.net/help`, or other non-mathematical sections. The annotators manually inspect the URL structure of each identified domain and label which paths correspond to mathematical content. All web pages matching those annotated URL patterns, including ones the classifier previously missed, are then added to the seed corpus. This is a practical middle ground: rather than manually reviewing individual web pages (infeasible at Common Crawl scale), they manually review URL patterns within a manageable number of domains, which can then be used to programmatically collect large numbers of high-quality positive examples.

On your third question, the fact that $98\%$ of the data was already collected in the third iteration indicates the classifier had effectively converged in its ability to find new mathematical content, rather than literally exhausting every math page in Common Crawl. What happened is that over four iterations, the seed corpus became diverse enough that the classifier learned to recognize the vast majority of mathematical web content that exists in a recognizable form in Common Crawl. By the fourth iteration, the marginal gain from retraining was negligible—the classifier was already capturing essentially the same pages it would capture with further refinement. The paper says they "decide to cease data collection" at this point, which is a practical stopping criterion based on diminishing returns. It is likely that some mathematical content still exists in Common Crawl that was not captured (e.g., pages on domains that never crossed the $10\%$ collection threshold, or math content embedded in non-math domains), but the iterative pipeline had reached a point of saturation where additional iterations would not yield meaningfully more data. This is a convergence of the *collection process*, not a claim that all math content has been found.