\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

### Why does code training before math training improve math reasoning, but mixing them together doesn't?
Question:
The DeepSeekMath paper finds that code training before math training (two-stage) improves mathematical reasoning both with and without tool use. However, when code and math tokens are mixed for one-stage training, mathematical reasoning *without tool use* actually gets worse.

The paper conjectures that 'DeepSeek-LLM 1.3B, due to its limited scale, lacks the capacity to fully assimilate both code and mathematical data simultaneously.' But this explanation seems unsatisfying. Why would the model be able to learn from code and then math sequentially, but not simultaneously? Is there a deeper explanation for why sequential code-then-math training helps reasoning while joint training hurts it? Could this be related to how code training establishes certain representations or reasoning patterns that are then transferred to math, but when mixed, the math data interferes with this process?
Answer:
The key to understanding this phenomenon lies in distinguishing what code training actually contributes to mathematical reasoning, and how that contribution interacts with simultaneous math training differently than with sequential math training.

The paper finds that code training improves mathematical reasoning in two distinct ways: it enhances program-aided reasoning (writing Python to solve problems) and it also improves chain-of-thought reasoning without tools. The first benefit is intuitive—coding and program-aided math are closely related skills. The second benefit is more subtle: code training instills general reasoning patterns such as step-by-step decomposition, logical conditioning, variable tracking, and structured problem-solving. These are domain-general reasoning scaffolds that transfer to mathematical reasoning even when the model is not writing code.

In the two-stage setting, code training first allows the model to fully develop these reasoning patterns without competition from mathematical content. The model builds a robust "reasoning infrastructure"—attention patterns, sequential processing habits, and logical decomposition strategies. When math training follows, it builds on top of this established infrastructure. The math data specializes the already-existing reasoning patterns toward mathematical content, and the model learns to express mathematical reasoning in natural language chain-of-thought because the underlying reasoning capacity is already in place. This is essentially a form of curriculum learning where a foundational skill (structured reasoning via code) is learned before the target skill (mathematical reasoning in natural language).

In the one-stage mixed setting, the situation is fundamentally different. The model must simultaneously learn code syntax and semantics, mathematical notation and concepts, natural language mathematical reasoning, and program-aided mathematical reasoning. The critical problem is that natural language chain-of-thought reasoning and code-based reasoning, while sharing underlying logical structure, require different output modes and somewhat different internal representations. When the $1.3\text{B}$ model processes interleaved code and math tokens, the gradient signals from code data and math data compete for the same representational capacity. For tool-use math, this competition is not harmful because the two skill sets are synergistic—writing Python code to solve math problems draws on both coding ability and mathematical knowledge simultaneously. But for non-tool-use chain-of-thought reasoning, the code data actively interferes: the model's representations are pulled toward code-like patterns (formal syntax, program structure) when the task requires expressing reasoning in fluid natural language.

This explains the asymmetry in the paper's results. Mixed one-stage training "synergizes coding and program-aided mathematical reasoning" because those tasks share representational needs. But it "compromises mathematical reasoning without tool use" because natural language mathematical reasoning requires representations that are distinct from code, and the simultaneous training prevents the model from cleanly separating these modes.

The paper's capacity conjecture is thus not wrong, but it can be made more precise: the issue is not simply that the model cannot "assimilate" both data types, but that with limited capacity, the model cannot maintain sufficiently distinct representations for code-based reasoning and natural language mathematical reasoning when trained on them simultaneously. Sequential training avoids this because the code representations are established first and then repurposed—the model does not need to maintain code-specific representations while learning natural language math reasoning; it only needs the transferred reasoning patterns.

This connects to the broader concept of negative transfer in multi-task learning: when tasks share some structure but require different output modes, simultaneous training on a small model can cause interference that sequential training avoids. The finding also aligns with observations in the curriculum learning literature—learning foundational skills before target skills can be more effective than joint training, particularly when model capacity is limited relative to the complexity of what needs to be learned.