--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain what RLHF is?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain what RLHF is?<|EOT|>RLHF is a term used in the context of the NFL's new rule regarding the placement of the ball for extra point attempts. It stands for "run lateral, kick field goal," and refers to a play where the offense would attempt to execute a trick play where the player who receives the ball on the two-point conversion or extra point attempt would laterally pass or pitch the ball to a teammate, who would then attempt a field goal. The name comes from the fact that this play would involve a run followed by a lateral, and then a field goal kick.

The NFL adopted a new rule for extra point attempts in 2015, moving the ball up from the 15-yard line to the 2-yard line for extra point attempts. This was done in an effort to increase the success rate of extra point attempts, which had fallen to around 99% in recent years. The rule change was intended to make extra point attempts more challenging, and thus more exciting for fans. However, it also opened the door for teams to attempt more creative plays on extra point attempts, including trick plays like the RLHF.

The RLHF play was first attempted in a preseason game between the New Orleans Saints and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on August 9, 2015. On the play, Saints quarterback Drew Brees took the snap and lateraled the ball to running back Mark Ingram, who then lateraled the ball to wide receiver Brandin Cooks. Cooks then lateraled the ball back to Ingram, who then laterals the ball to kicker Garrett Hartley, who then attempted a 70-yard field goal. The kick was no good, but the play showed that the RLHF was a possibility under the new rule.

In the regular season, the RLHF was attempted twice. The first time was in a game between the Indianapolis Colts and the Jacksonville Jaguars on October 11, 2015. In that game, Colts quarterback Andrew Luck took the snap and laterled the ball to running back Frank Gore, who lateraled the ball to punter Pat McAfee. McAfee then lateraled the ball again to wide receiver Griff Whalen, who then lateraled it back to McAfee. McAfee attempted a 61-yard field goal, but it was no good. The second time the RLHF was attempted was in a game betweenthe New York Giants and the Washington Redskins on November 22, 2015.  On that play, Giants quarterback Eli Manning took the snap and laterals the ball to running back Andre Williams, who laterals it to punter Brad Wing. Wing then laterals the ball back to Williams, who then laterals it to Manning. Manning then laterals the ball again to Wing, who then laterals to tight end Larry Donnell. Donnell then laterals the ball one last time to Manning, who then attempts a 76-yard field goal, which is no good.

While the RLHF has not been successful yet, it shows that the new rule has opened the door for more creativity and trick plays on extra point attempts. Whether the RLHF or another trick play will be successful remains to be seen, but it is clear that the new rule has made extra point attempts more interesting for fans.<|endoftext|>
