----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, the severity of clinical findings appeared disproportionate to nutritional deficiency alone.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", despite evaluation for vitamin B12 and folate deficiency and other nutritional issues, the severity of her clinical findings appeared disproportionate to nutritional deficiency alone.
target: "nutritional deficiency alone"

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It showed inhomogeneous ¹⁸F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the axial and appendicular bone marrow.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a PET-CT obtained during the evaluation for occult infiltrative or inflammatory pathology showed inhomogeneous 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in "axial and appendicular bone marrow".
target: axial and appendicular bone marrow

----- Row 104 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient showed symptomatic improvement following correction of deficiencies and supportive care.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the woman in her late 20s showed symptomatic improvement during follow-up after "correction of deficiencies and supportive care".
target: correction of deficiencies and supportive care

----- Row 158 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Telomere shortening compromises the replicative potential of haematopoietic stem cells, leading to accelerated cellular senescence and an increased risk of BMFS.
fact: In the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", the discussion explains that telomere shortening compromises the replicative potential of haematopoietic stem cells, causing accelerated cellular senescence and increasing the risk of BMFS.
target: **Answer:** BMFS

----- Row 163 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A retrospective analysis from the Aachen Telomere Biology Disease Registry using transient elastography found that 88.8% of adult patients with pathogenic TERC or TERT mutations had at least moderate HF, and 33.3% had cirrhosis.
fact: According to the case report "Monoallelic PARN mutation presenting as pancytopenia, hepatic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis", a retrospective analysis from the Aachen Telomere Biology Disease Registry used transient elastography to examine adult patients with pathogenic TERC or TERT mutations, and the proportion of these adult patients who had at least moderate hepatic fibrosis (HF) was 88.8%.
target: "88.8%"

