--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. First, the paper introduces a new method for finetuning a pretrained model. The method is called "Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT)". OFT is based on the idea of orthogonal finetuning. The idea is to use a small number of orthogonal bases to finetune a pretrained model. The paper also introduces a new parameter-efficient method for orthogonal finetuning. This method is called "Factorization Orthogonal Finetuning (FOFT)".

The paper introduces two orthogonal bases, one is called "orthogonal basis" and the other is called "orthogonal factor". The orthogonal basis is a set of orthogonal vectors. The orthogonal factor is a set of orthogonal matrices. The orthogonal basis is used to finetune the pretrained model. The orthogonal factor is used to transform the orthogonal basis into a new orthogonal basis. The new orthogonal basis is used to further finetune the pretrained network. The paper also introduces two orthogonal bases, the first one is called "orthonormal basis" and the second one is called "orthogonality matrix". The orthogonal basis is used for finetuning the pretrained model. The orthogonality matrix is used to transform the orthogonormal basis into a new orthogonal base. The new orthogonal base is used to finetuning the pretrained network.

The paper introduces two methods for orthogonal finetuning, one is called "Orthogonal Factorization Finetuning (OFFT)" and the other is called"Orthogonal Finetuning with Orthogonal Factorization (OFT)". The OFFT method is based on the OFT method. The OFT method is based on the orthogonal factorization method. The OFT and OFFT methods are both parameter-efficient methods. The OFT method uses a small number of orthogonal factors to finetune the model. The OFFT method uses a small number orthogonal factors to transform the orthogonal basis. The OFT method can be used to finetune a large number of models. The OFFT method can be used to fine-tune a small number of models.

The paper introduces two parameter-efficient methods for orthogonal finetunning, one is called "Factorization Finetuning (FFT)" and the other is "Orthogonal Finetunning with Orthogonal Factorization" (OFT). The FFT method is based on the factorization method. The orthogonal finetuning method is based on the orthogonality matrix. The OFT method and the FFT method are both parameter-efficient methods.

The paper introduces two new methods for orthogonal finetunings, one is called "Parameter-Efficient Factorization Finetuning" (PEFT) and the other is called Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Factorization Fineturing" (PEOF). The PEFT method is based on a parameter-efficient method for orthogonal factorization. The PEOF method is based on a new parameter-efficient method. The PEFT method is more efficient than the OFT method. It can be used to finete the pretrained model with a small number of parameters. The PEOF method can be used to improve the performance of the pretrained model. It can be used for finetuning a large number of models with a small number of parameter.

The paper introduces two method for orthogonal finetunig, one is called "Parametric Orthogonal Finetuning" (POFT) and the other one is called "Orthogonality Matrix Finetuning" (OMFT). The POFT method is based on an orthogonal matrix. The OMFT method is based on orthogonal matrices. The POFT method is more efficient. It can be used finetune a large amount of models with a small amount of parameters. The OMFT method can be used to increase the performance of the pretrained models. It can be used in finetuning a large amount of models.

The paper presents two methods for orthogonal finetting, one is called "OFT" and the other is "OFT with Orthogonal Factorization". The OFT method is a parameter-efficient method for finetuning. The OFT method has been widely used in the field of deep learning. The OFT method requires a large number of parameters. The OFT method cannot be used to finetun a large number of models.

The OFT method is basedon the orthogonal factorization method, which is a parameter-efficient method. The OFTmethod is based on the orthogonal matrix. The OFTmethod can be used to finertune a large number of pretrained models with a small numberof parameters. The OFTmethod has been widely used in deep learning. The OFTMethod has been widely used in finetuning. The OFTmethod is based on the OFTMethod. The OFTmethod can be used to fine tune a large number of modelswith a small number of parameters.

The paper introduces two ways for orthogonal finetuning: one is called "Ortho-Orthogonal Finetuning" and the other iscalled "Orthogonal Fineturing". The OFT method can finetune a
