\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### Why does applying LoRA to ALL linear layers matter more than rank $r$ for matching 16-bit performance?
Question:
In Section 4, under 'Default LoRA hyperparameters do not match 16-bit performance,' the authors state that applying LoRA only to query and value projections (the standard practice from the original LoRA paper) fails to replicate full finetuning performance on large models. They claim that using adapters on *every* linear transformer block layer is required.

This seems counter-intuitive to me because LoRA is supposed to be parameter-efficient. If adding adapters to every layer increases the parameter count significantly, doesn't that defeat some purpose of PEFT? Also, why does increasing coverage (number of layers) have a bigger impact than increasing the rank $r$ of individual adapters? Is there a theoretical reason why specific layers (like feed-forward networks) contribute more to adaptation capability in large models than others?
Answer:
The finding that applying LoRA to all linear layers is more critical than increasing the rank $r$ stems from the fundamental difference between the memory bottleneck of training and the expressive capacity required to recover 16-bit performance. While LoRA was originally designed as a Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) method to minimize trainable parameters, the QLoRA paper clarifies that in the context of Large Language Model (LLM) finetuning, the dominant memory consumption comes not from the adapter weights themselves, but from the activation gradients and optimizer states associated with the forward and backward passes. As noted in Section 3 under "Memory Requirement of Parameter-Efficient Finetuning," for a 7B model, the LoRA parameters occupy only roughly 26 MB, whereas the input gradients alone can consume hundreds of megabytes. Consequently, expanding the number of adapters from just the query and value projections to every linear layer (including key projections, output projections, and feed-forward network matrices) increases the total parameter count negligibly relative to the overall memory footprint. This allows practitioners to maximize model expressivity without hitting memory limits that would otherwise restrict batch size or sequence length.

The reason this increased coverage outweighs increasing the rank $r$ lies in the nature of how neural networks adapt to new tasks. Increasing the rank $r$ expands the dimensionality of the update within a specific layer, assuming that the bottleneck is the complexity of the transformation at that single location. However, the authors' empirical results in Section 4 suggest that for large models, the limitation is not the depth of adaptation per layer, but rather the breadth of adaptation across the architecture. By restricting LoRA to only query and value matrices, you are effectively freezing a significant portion of the model's computational graph, preventing gradients from updating vast swathes of the network's representational capacity. When you apply adapters to every linear layer, you enable gradient flow and parameter updates throughout the entire depth and width of the transformer blocks. This comprehensive coverage allows the model to make small, coordinated adjustments across all functional components—attention mechanisms and feed-forward networks alike—which collectively sum to a powerful adaptation capable of matching full 16-bit finetuning. Essentially, distributing low-rank updates everywhere provides a richer manifold for optimization than concentrating higher-rank updates in isolated parts of the network, proving that for large-scale models, architectural coverage is a more potent driver of performance than local adapter complexity.