--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method that is based on the butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is a well-known data structure that is used in many applications, including signal processing, graph theory, and linear algebra. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of sparse matrices that are arranged in a hierarchical manner. The butterfly structure is used to efficiently represent large matrices, and it has been shown to be highly parameter-efficient. In the context of orthogonal finetuning, the butterfly structure is used to construct a sparse orthogonal matrix that can be used to finetune a large model. The butterfly structure is constructed by recursively applying a small set of sparse matrices, and the resulting matrix is parameter-efficient because it only requires a small number of parameters to represent a large matrix. The paper also presents a novel method for constructing the butterfly structure, which is based on the Cayley transform. The Cayley transform is a well-known mathematical transformation that is used to construct orthogonal matrices. The Cayley transform can be used to construct a sparse matrix that can be used as a building block for the butterfly structure. The paper also presents an efficient algorithm for computing the Cayley transform, which is based on a fast Fourier transform. The algorithm is highly efficient and can be used to compute the Cayley transform in a single pass through the data. The paper also presents experimental results that show that BOFT is highly parameter-efficient and can be used to fin<|endoftext|>
