--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel parameter-efficient finetuning method for large pretrained models. BOFT is based on the butterfly structure, a well-known data-parallelism pattern in computer science. BOFT is able to adapt large pretrained models to downstream tasks with a fraction of the number of trainable parameters of OFT. BOFT is the first method that adapts large pretrained language models to downstream tasks while being more parameter-efficient than the original pretrained model. BOFT is the most parameter-efficient method among all the methods that can adapt LLaMA-53 to the task. BOFT is the only method that can adapt LLaMa-53 to the task with a smaller number of trainable parameters than the original LLaMA-53. BOFT is the best method based on the validation perplexity. BOFT is the method with the fewest trainable parameters that achieves 50% or more of the performance of the original LLaMA model. BOFT is a general method for finetuning pretrained models that can be applied to any pretrained model. BOFT can be viewed as a generalization of the butterfly structure to the orthogonal group. BOFT is the orthogonal counterpart of the widely-used block-diagonal structure. BOFT is the state-of-the-art parameter-efficient finetuning approach for large pretrained language models. BOFT is the standard OFT with a butterfly factorization. BOFT is the OFT with a block-diagonal factorization. BOFT can be written as

BOFT(θ;R)=R(θ1)⊗R(θ2)⊗…⊗R( θb ) (1)
where R(θi) is the ith orthogonal butterfly and ⊗ denotes the Kronecker product. BOFT can be interpreted as finetuning the pretrained model with a transformed weight matrix. BOFT is the finetuning method that transforms the pretrained weight matrix into a block-diagonal matrix. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that transforms the pretrained weight matrices into a sparse matrix. BOFT is an efficient finetuning method that can adapt large pretrained models to a downstream task. BOFT is a novel parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning method. BOFT is the Orthogonal Butterfly. BOFT is the Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Tuning. BOFT is the butterfly structure for orthogonal matrices. BOFT is the block-diagonal structure for orthogonal matrices. The block-diagonal structure is the most well-known parameter-efficient structure for finetuning pretrained neural networks. BOFT is the matrix factorization

R(θ)=R(θ1 )⊗R(  θ2 )⊗…⋯⊗R( b θb ) (2)
where R(θj) is the jth orthogonal matrix. BOFT is based upon the butterfly structure, a data-parallelism pattern that is commonly used in computer science. BOft is the orthogonal counterpart of block-diagonal structure. The block-diagonal matrix is the most well-known data-parallel structure for finetuning neural networks. BOFT can be seen as a generalization of butterfly structure to the orthogonal matrix. BOFT can be generalized to the case of multiple input channels. BOFT can be easily extended to the case of multiple inputs. BOFT can be extended to the case of batch normalization. BOFT can be further extended to the case of residual connections. BOFT can be applied to any downstream task. BOFT can be used to finetune any pretrained model. BOft can be applied to any large pretrained model. BOFT has been successfully applied to finetune LLaMA-53 and LLaMA-65. BOFT can be combined with other finetuning methods. BOFT can be implemented efficiently. BOFT can be efficiently implemented in a single GPU. BOFT can be computed in a single forward pass. BOFT can be expressed as a sequence of matrix multiplications. BOFT can be represented as a sequence of matrix factorizations. BOFT can be regarded as a generalization of block-diagonal structure to the orthogonal matrix and the butterfly structure to the data-parallelism pattern. BOFT can be considered as a generalization of data-parallelism to the orthogonal matrix. The block-diagonal data-parallel structure is the most well known parameter-efficient structure for finetting pretrained neural networks. BOft is the Orthogonal Butterfly structure. BOFT is a matrix factorization approach. BOFT is a method for finetuning large pretrained models. BOft is the Parameter-Effecient Orthogonal Tuning. The block-diagonal finetuning structure is the most wellknown parameter-efficient structure for finettuing pretrained neural networks. BOFO is the Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning. BOFT is the parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuing method. BOFT is a generic method for finetuning any pretrained model. BOFO is the Orthogonal Butterfly Structure. BOFT is the Butterfly Structure for Orthogonal Matrices. BOFT is the Matrix Factorization Approach
