--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel parameter-efficient finetuning method for large pretrained models. BOFT is based on the butterfly structure, a well-known data-parallelism pattern in computer science. BOFT is able to adapt large pretrained models to downstream tasks with a fraction of the number of trainable parameters of OFT. BOFT is the first method that can adapt a large pretrained model to a downstream task with a number of trainable parameters that is a small constant times the number of parameters in the pretrained model. BOFT is the best-performing parameter-efficient finetuning approach, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art by a significant margin. BOFT is the most parameter-efficient method, using only 0.09% of the parameters in the pretrained model, while still beating the performance of T5. BOFT is the only method that can adapt LLaMA to downstream tasks with a number of trainable parameter that is a small constant. BOFT is the new state-of-the-art in parameter-efficiency, using only 0,09% of the parameters of the pretrained model. BOft is the first method that is able to adapt a large pretrained model with a number of trainable parame-ters that is a small constant multiple of the number of parameters in th e pretrained model. BOFT can adapt LLaMA, a 3B model, to 13 downstream tasks with 0.09% the number of trainable parameters, while achieving better performance than the original LLaMA model. BOFT is a general method that can be applied to any pretrained model. BOFT adapts the pretrained model by learning a matrix factorization of the pretrained weight matrix. BOFT is the smallest method in the plot, using only 0% of the number of trainable parameter of the pretrained model. The results show that BOFT is the most effective method for adapting large pretrained models to downstream task. BOFT is the method that uses the smallest number of trainable parameters, using only 0%, while still beating the performance T5. BOFT can adapt a pretrained model to a downstream tasks with a number parameters that is a small multiple of the number of parameter in the pretrained model. The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning Via Factorization" introduces BOFT, a novel and efficient method that adapts large models to downstream tasks. BOFT is the parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is able to adapt the largest pretrained models to downstream tasks. The results show that the BOFT is the most efficient finetuning method, using only 1% of the number of parameters of the pretrained model, while achieving better performance that the original pretrained model. BOFT finetunes a pretrained model by learning a factorization of the pretrained weights. BOFT is the finetuning method that uses the smallest fraction of the number of parameters, using only 1%, while still beating the original pretrained model. The results in Figure 1 show that BOFT is able to finetune a pretrained model with a number parameters that scales linearly with the number of parameters in pretrained model, while still achieving better performance than the pretrained model. BO FT is the only method that is able to finetun a 3B model with a number of parameters that is a small constat. BOFT is the general and parameter-efficient finetuning methods that can be applied to all pretrained models. BOFT finetunig a pretrained model by learning the factorization of the pretrained weigths. BOFT is the novel and parameter-efficient finetunig method that can be applied t all pretrained models. BO FT is the most parameter-efficient finetunign method, using only 9% of the number of parameter of the pretrained model, whil still beating the performance of the pretrained model. Figure 1 shows that BOFT is the only parameter-efficient method that can finetune a 3B model to 13 downstream tasks, using only 0%. BOFT is the most general and parameter-efficient finituning method that can be applied any pretrained model. BO FT finetunes a pretrained modl by learning a factorization the pretrained weights. BO FT is the parameter-efficient finitunig method that can adapt a 3B model t 13 downstream tasks, usin only 9% of parameters, while still beatin the performance of the pretrained modl. BOFT is the mo general and parameter-efficient finitetunig method that can apply to any pretrained model. Figure 2 shows that BOFT is able t finetune a 75B model to 13 downstram tasks, using only 1.5% of the number of paramete of the pretrained model, and still achieving better performance than T5. BOFT finetuns a pretrained model by learning factorization of the pretrained weigh matrix. BOFT is a novel and parameter-efficient finitun ing method that can be applied all pretrained models. BOft is the only method that i able to finetune LLaMA, a large 3B model, with a number of parameters tha is
