--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel parameter-efficient finetuning method for large pretrained models. BOFT is based on the butterfly structure, a well-known data-parallelism pattern in computer science. BOFT is able to adapt large pretrained models to downstream tasks with a fraction of the number of trainable parameters of OFT. BOFT is the first method that adapts large pretrained language models to downstream tasks while being more parameter-efficient than the original pretrained model. BOFT is the most parameter-efficient method among all the methods that can adapt LLaMA-53 to the task. BOFT is the only method that can adapt LLaMa-53 to the task with a smaller number of trainable parameters than the original LLaMA-53. BOFT is the best method based on the validation perplexity. BOFT is the method with the fewest trainable parameters that achieves 50% or more of the performance of the original LLaMA model. BOFT is a general method for finetuning large pretrained models that can be applied to any pretrained model. BOFT can be viewed as a generalization of the butterfly structure to the orthogonal group. BOFT is the orthogonal counterpart of the widely-used block-diagonal structure. BOFT is the state-of-the-art parameter-efficient finetuning approach for large pretrained language models. BOFT is the standard OFT with a butterfly factorization. BOFT is the OFT with a block-diagonal factorization. BOFT can be written as:

BOFT(θ;R)=R(θ1)⊗R(θ2)⊗…⊗R( θb ) (1)

where R(θi) is the ith orthogonal butterfly layer with trainable orthogonal matrix θiRb×b. BOFT uses the butterfly structure, a data-parallelism pattern that is commonly used in computer science to reduce the communication cost in parallel computing. BOFT is the Orthogonal Butterfly with a block-diagonal matrix factorization. BOFT uses the orthogonal butterfly structure to reduce the number of trainable parameters while still being able to adapt large pretrained language models to a wide range of downstream tasks. BOFT is the parameter-efficient finetuning counterpart of Large Language Models (LLaMA) (Bai et al., 2022). BOFT is the first parameter-efficient finetuning adaptation method that can adapt LLMs with more than 100B parameters. BOFT is the finetuning method that can adapt the widest range of pretrained models while being the most parameter-efficient. BOFT is the generalization of the butterfly matrix factorization to the orthogonal group. The orthogonal butterfly structure is a generalization of the block-diagonal structure to the orthogonal group, which enables BOFT to be more parameter-efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal variant. BOFT is the novel parameter-efficient finetune approach that adapts large pretrained models. BOft is the most parameter-efficient finetuning variant of OFT. BOft is the only method that is more parameter-efficient than the pretrained model. BOft is the method that can adapt the largest pretrained model while being more parameter-efficient. BOft is the orthogonal counterpart of ButterflyNet. BOft is the OFT with the butterfly matrix factorization. BOft is the standard OFT. BOft can be written as:

Boft(θ;R)=r(θ1)r(θ2)⋯r( θb )=R(θ1) ⊗ R(θ2) ⊗ … ⊗ R( θb )=(R(θ1) )⊗(R(θ2) )⋯(R( θb )) (2)

where r(θi) is an orthogonal butterfly layer with trainable matrix θiRbi×bi. BOft is the best method based both on the perplexity and the number of trainable parameters. BOft is the first method that can adapt Llama-53 to the task while being more parameter-efficient compared to the original Llama-53. BOft is the parameter-efficient finituning method that adapts large Llama models to downstream tasks. BOft is the generalization of ButterflyNet (Zhang et al., 2019) to the orthogonal group. We note that BOft is the only parameter-efficient finetuning adapter that can adapt Llama models to the task. BOft is the finetuning approach that adapges large pretrained models while being the parameter-efficient. BOft can be viewed as a variant of the butterfly structure that uses the orthogonal group instead of the general linear group. BOft is the Orthogonal Butterfly that uses a block-diagonal matrix factroization. BOft is a general method for adapting large pretrained models that can work with any pretrained model. BOft can be applied to any large pretrained model. BOft has the same computational complexity as OFT. BOft has the lowest memory footprint among all the methods. BOft has the fewest trainable parameters among all the methods. The results show that BO
