--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix to finetune the weights of a pretrained model. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a block-diagonal matrix, which reduces the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is also computationally efficient because it uses a butterfly structure to multiply the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix with the input. BOFT is a general method that can be applied to any finetuning method that produces an orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a simple method that can be easily implemented and used. BOFT is a promising method that has the potential to improve the performance of finetuning methods. BOFT is a method that is worth exploring and experimenting with. BOFT is a great method that can be used to finetune large models. BOFT is a parameter-efficient method that can be used for finetuning large models. BOFT can be used to finitune large models without increasing the number of trainable parameters, which is a big advantage. BOFT can be easily implemented and is computationally efficient. BOFT is a very simple method that can be used in many different applications. BOFT is a good method that can be used by anyone. BOFT is a fast method that can be used with large models. BOFT has the potential to improve performance. BOFT is a reliable method that can be used without any problems. BOFT is a flexible method that can be used on many different types of models. BOFT is an effective method that can be used even with small models. BOFT is easy to use and can be used by anyone, even beginners. BOFT is a powerful method that can be used effectively. BOFT is a robust method that can be used reliably. BOFT is a scalable method that can be used efficiently with large models. BOft is a simple method that is easy to implement and use. BOFT is a practical method that can be used successfully in many different applications.<|endoftext|>
