--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix to finetune the weights of a pretrained model. BOFT is parameter-efficient because it uses a block-diagonal matrix, which reduces the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is also computationally efficient because it uses a butterfly structure to multiply the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix with the input. BOFT is a general method that can be applied to any finetuning method that produces an orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a simple method that can be easily implemented and used. BOFT is a promising method that has the potential to improve the performance of finetuning methods. BOFT is a method that is worth exploring and experimenting with. BOFT is a great method that can be used to finetune large models. BOFT is a parameter-efficient method that can be used for finetuning large models. BOFT can be used to finitune large models without increasing the number of trainable parameters, which is a big advantage. BOFT can be easily implemented and is computationally efficient. BOFT is a very simple method that can be used in many different applications. BOFT is a good method that can be used by many people. BOFT is a useful method that can be used with many different models. BOFT is an interesting method that can be used and experimented with. BOFT is an efficient method that can be used without increasing the number of parameters. BOFT is a fast method that can be used on large models. BOFT has the potential to improve performance. BOFT is a novel method that can be used. BOFT is an effective method that can be used.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning method that can be used

BOFT is a parameter efficient finetuning method that can be applied

BOFT is a general method for finetuning large pretrained models

BOFT is a simple method for finetuning pretrained models

BOFT can be used to improve the performance of pretrained models

BOFT has the potential to be used in many different finetuning applications

BOFT is a fast method for finetuning models

BOFT is an interesting method for finetuning

BOFT is a useful method for finetuning<|endoftext|>
