--- PROMPT ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
Can you explain what PPO is?<|EOT|>

What is PPO?

PPO stands for Preferred Provider Organization. It is a type of health insurance plan that allows you to choose your own doctors and hospitals. You will pay less out-of-pocket if you use a PPO plan than if you use an HMO plan. However, you may have to pay more if you use a doctor or hospital that is not in your PPO network.

How does PPO work?

If you have a PPO plan, you can choose any doctor or hospital that is in your PPO network. You will pay less if you use a doctor in your PPO network than if you use a doctor outside of your PPO network. If you use a doctor or a hospital that is not in the PPO network, you will have to pay more out-of-pocket. You will also have to pay a higher deductible. A deductible is the amount of money you have to pay before your insurance starts to pay for your medical bills. For example, if your deductible is $1,000, you will have to spend $1,000 before your insurance starts to cover your medical bills. After you have met your deductible, your insurance will pay for most of your medical bills. However, you may still have to pay some of the costs yourself. For example, if you have a $500 co-pay, you will have to cover $500 of the cost of your medical bills. If you have a $1,000 deductible, you will have to come up with $1,000 of the cost of your bills before your insurance starts to help you pay for them. If you have a high deductible, you may want to choose a PPO plan that has a lower deductible. This will help you save money on your medical bills. If your insurance company offers a PPO plan, it will usually tell you how much you will have to pay out-of-pocket if you choose to use a doctor or hospital outside of your PPO plan. This is called your out-of-pocket maximum. For example, if the out-of-pocket maximum is $5,000, you will only have to pay $5,000 if you use a doctor that is not in your network. If you use your insurance company's preferred provider, you will have to meet your deductible before your insurance starts to kick in. This is called your deductible. For example, if it is $1,000 and you have a $1.00 co-pay, you will only have $1,000 to pay before your insurance kicks in. If you use your doctor's office, you will have to go to the doctor's office. If you use your hospital, you will have to stay in the hospital. If you use your pharmacy, you will have to get your prescription filled at the pharmacy. If you use your dentist, you will have to see your dentist. If you use your optometrist, you will have to visit your optometrist. If you use your chiropractor, you will have to make an appointment with your chiropractor. If you use your dermatologist, you will have to schedule an appointment with your dermatologist. If you use your podiatrist, you will have a visit with your podiatrist. If you use a therapist, you will have to find a therapist. If you use a psychologist, you will have to book an appointment with your psychologist. If you use a psychiatrist, you will have to call your psychiatrist. If you use a naturopath, you will have to contact your naturopath. If you use a nutritionist, you will have to set up an appointment with your nutritionist. If you use a massage therapist, you will have a massage. If you use a physical therapist, you will have physical therapy. If you use a speech therapist, you will have speech therapy. If you use an acupuncturist, you will have acupuncture. If you use a yoga instructor, you will have yoga. If you use a personal trainer, you will have personal training. If you use a pet sitter, you will have pet sitting. If you use a dog walker, you will have dog walking. If you use a babysitter, you will have babysitting. If you use a housekeeper, you will have housekeeping. If you use a gardener, you will have gardening. If you use a landscaper, you will have landscaping. If you use a lawn service, you will have lawn care. If you use a plumber, you will have plumbing. If you use a handyman, you will have handyman work. If you use a carpenter, you will have carpentry. If you use a painter, you will have painting. If you use a contractor, you will have construction. If you use a roofing contractor, you will have roofing. If you use a flooring contractor, you will have flooring. If you use a cabinetmaker, you will have cabinetmaking. If you use a drywall contractor, you will have drywall. If you use a plasterer,
