\title{Blogs about the Paper: "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization"}

# Beyond LoRA: Preserving Neural Angles with Orthogonal Butterfly Finetuning

The rise of massive foundation models like GPT-3 and Stable Diffusion has revolutionized artificial intelligence, but it has also created a significant bottleneck: training these models from scratch is prohibitively expensive. Consequently, the field has shifted toward parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods that adapt pre-trained giants to specific downstream tasks without retraining the entire network. While Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) has become the industry standard for its simplicity and speed, recent research suggests it may not be the optimal solution for every scenario. A new technique called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) offers a compelling alternative by fundamentally changing how we modify neural weights, prioritizing the preservation of geometric relationships within the model.

At the heart of BOFT lies a philosophical shift from additive updates to multiplicative transformations. Traditional methods like LoRA update a pre-trained weight matrix $\bm{W}^0$ by adding a low-rank matrix product, effectively shifting the weights in a specific direction. In contrast, Orthogonal Fine-tuning (OFT), the precursor to BOFT, multiplies the weight matrix by a learnable orthogonal matrix $\bm{R}$. The critical advantage here is geometry: an orthogonal transformation preserves the pairwise angles between neurons. Since these angles encode semantic relationships learned during pre-training, maintaining them ensures that the foundational knowledge of the model remains intact while adapting to new tasks. This approach has been shown to yield superior training stability and generalization compared to additive methods, particularly in complex domains like text-to-image generation.

However, early implementations of OFT faced a practical hurdle: computational cost. To maintain orthogonality across high-dimensional spaces requires updating a dense $d \times d$ matrix, which involves $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$ parameters—a number that quickly becomes unmanageable for large models. Previous attempts solved this by using block-diagonal structures, breaking the matrix into smaller independent chunks. While this reduced parameter counts, it introduced rigid sparsity patterns that limited expressiveness and forced unrelated dimensions to be processed independently. The challenge was clear: how could we construct a dense orthogonal matrix that allows information to flow freely across all dimensions while remaining parameter-efficient?

The authors of BOFT solve this puzzle by reframing matrix construction as an information transmission problem. Imagine a grid where nodes represent dimensions and edges represent information flow; constructing a dense matrix is equivalent to ensuring every node in the input layer can transmit information to every node in the output layer through a series of intermediate steps. Instead of trying to create one giant dense connection map, BOFT composes the final orthogonal matrix as a product of multiple sparse matrices. Drawing inspiration from the Cooley-Tukey Fast Fourier Transform algorithm, they utilize "butterfly structures." These structures allow information from different nodes to be exchanged efficiently through recursive sparse operations. By chaining together $\mathcal{O}(\log d)$ sparse matrices, each containing only $\mathcal{O}(d)$ non-zero entries, BOFT constructs a fully dense orthogonal transformation using merely $\mathcal{O}(d \log d)$ trainable parameters.

This architectural innovation allows BOFT to subsume traditional OFT as a special case while offering significantly greater flexibility. Unlike block-diagonal approaches that arbitrarily split dimensions based on indices, the butterfly structure creates a smooth interpolation between identity matrices (preserving pre-training exactly) and full orthogonal matrices (allowing maximum adaptation). This provides an implicit inductive bias derived from classic linear transforms like the Discrete Fourier Transform and Hadamard transform, which are known for their robustness and efficiency in signal processing. Furthermore, because BOFT relies on multiplicative updates rather than additive ones, standard dropout techniques do not apply directly; instead, the method employs "multiplicative dropout," which randomly replaces specific butterfly components with identity matrices during training to prevent overfitting without breaking orthogonality constraints.

Empirical evaluations demonstrate that BOFT excels across diverse modalities including large language models, vision transformers, and diffusion models for image generation. In scenarios where preserving spectral norms is crucial for stability—such as preventing gradient explosion or vanishing—theoretical guarantees show that multiplying by an orthogonal matrix leaves the singular values of the original weight matrix unchanged. This contrasts sharply with LoRA, which can alter spectral properties unpredictably depending on rank choices. Experiments indicate that BOFT often outperforms state-of-the-art methods by considerable margins in terms of generalization capability while maintaining competitive parameter efficiency. Although there is a slight increase in training runtime due to computing products of multiple matrices during backpropagation, this overhead disappears entirely at inference time once the learned components are fused into the base model weights.

Ultimately, BOFT challenges the notion that low-rank approximations are always sufficient for fine-tuning foundation models. By leveraging butterfly factorization to achieve dense orthogonal transformations with minimal parameters, it offers a principled way to respect the geometric integrity of pre-trained knowledge while enabling powerful adaptation. As researchers continue to push boundaries in multimodal AI and generative modeling, techniques like BOFT highlight that sometimes looking back at classical algorithms like FFT can provide fresh solutions for modern machine learning problems. Whether you are building specialized chatbots or customizing image generators, considering angle-preserving fine-tuning might just be the key to unlocking better performance and stability than you thought possible with standard adapters alone