----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The immigration judge denied their applications, and the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed.
answer: "the Board of Immigration Appeals"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the immigration judge denied the petitioners’ applications for asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture, the denial was affirmed by "the Board of Immigration Appeals".

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners only appeal whether the BIA erred in denying their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
answer: "the BIA"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi before the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, the petitioners said that the adjudicatory body that denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal erred, namely "the BIA".

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners fail to demonstrate that they suffered persecution, that their alleged persecution had a nexus to a statutorily protected ground, or that the Colombian government is unwilling or unable to help them.
answer: "a statutorily protected ground"
statement: In the Tenth Circuit's opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after the immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals denied the petitioners' applications for asylum and withholding of removal, the court said their alleged persecution lacked a nexus to "a statutorily protected ground".

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners fail to demonstrate that they suffered persecution, that their alleged persecution had a nexus to a statutorily protected ground, or that the Colombian government is unwilling or unable to help them.
answer: "is unwilling or unable to help them"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners challenged the denial of asylum and withholding of removal in the Tenth Circuit and failed to demonstrate that the Colombian government "is unwilling or unable to help them".

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his wife, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons are from Bogota, Colombia.
answer: "Angelica Parada Duarte"
statement: In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the factual background identifies Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife, and their two minor sons as being from Bogota, Colombia, and Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez's wife was "Angelica Parada Duarte".

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the time, Petitioners went from door-to-door in local neighborhoods to seek favorable votes.
answer: "favorable votes"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners were members of the Colombian Liberal Party who supported Federico Gutierrez in the 2022 Colombian presidential election, and when they went from door to door in local neighborhoods, they were seeking "favorable votes".

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Beginning around the end of May 2022, Jimenez received threatening phone calls once or twice a week regarding his involvement in the Liberal Party.
answer: "the Liberal Party"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, according to the opinion’s factual background, beginning around the end of May 2022, Jimenez received threatening phone calls once or twice a week because of his involvement in "the Liberal Party"

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In early June 2022, a colleague was kidnapped and murdered, despite reporting the threats he received.
answer: "kidnapped and murdered"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, where Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his family were members of the Colombian Liberal Party and had been receiving threats in Colombia because of that involvement, the opinion states that in early June 2022, after a colleague reported the threats he had received, he was "kidnapped and murdered".

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez has a provisional law license and was a law student in 2022 when the relevant events took place.
answer: "a provisional law license"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion describes Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, who was also a law student in 2022 when the relevant events took place, as having "a provisional law license".

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He also worked as an intern for the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia, helping victims of domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes.
answer: "the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", while helping victims of domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes, Jimenez also worked as an intern for "the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia".

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He also worked as an intern for the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia, helping victims of domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes.
answer: "domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez worked as an intern for Colombia’s National Prosecutor’s office, where he helped victims of "domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes".

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his capacity as a provisional lawyer, a woman from San Bernardo requested his help with a property dispute in June 2022.
answer: as a provisional lawyer
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when a woman from San Bernardo asked Jimenez for help with a property dispute in June 2022, he was acting as a provisional lawyer.

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his capacity as a provisional lawyer, a woman from San Bernardo requested his help with a property dispute in June 2022.
answer: a property dispute
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez described his work as a provisional lawyer, and in June 2022 a woman from San Bernardo asked him for help with a property dispute.

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She explained that she had not received rent from the tenant occupying her property for over a year and asked Jimenez to speak with him about restitution and leaving the property.
answer: restitution and leaving the property
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after a woman from San Bernardo told Jimenez she had not received rent for over a year, she asked him to speak with the tenant about restitution and leaving the property.

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez visited the property to negotiate an agreement, but was unsuccessful—the tenant told Jimenez not to “look for trouble” and refused to negotiate.
answer: Answer: "not to “look for trouble”"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez visited the property in San Bernardo, Colombia, to negotiate with the tenant about restitution and leaving the property, the tenant told him not to “look for trouble”.

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The client declined to proceed with a formal eviction process and instead hoped the tenant would surrender the property knowing that a lawyer was intervening.
answer: "a formal eviction process"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez visited the property in San Bernardo to try to negotiate a property dispute involving a tenant who had not paid rent for more than a year, the client declined to pursue "a formal eviction process".

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on the title to the client’s property, Jimenez learned that the tenant was, in fact, the client’s ex-husband.
answer: "the title to the client’s property"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, during the factual background describing Jimenez’s work as a provisional lawyer in Colombia, he learned that the tenant was actually the client’s ex-husband by relying on "the title to the client’s property".

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on the title to the client’s property, Jimenez learned that the tenant was, in fact, the client’s ex-husband.
answer: "the client’s ex-husband"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez reviewed the title to the client’s property in connection with a property dispute involving a tenant who had not paid rent for over a year, he learned the tenant was "the client’s ex-husband".

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez investigated further and learned that the property was closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants and a base for narco-trafficking and prostitution.
answer: "a day-rental for migrants"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez investigated a property in Colombia and learned that it had been closed for the illegal use of "a day-rental for migrants".

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez investigated further and learned that the property was closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants and a base for narco-trafficking and prostitution.
answer: "narco-trafficking and prostitution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez investigated a property in Colombia in connection with a client’s dispute, he learned that the property had been closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants and as a base for "narco-trafficking and prostitution".

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Law enforcement had attempted several searches and seizures but those were seemingly unsuccessful.
answer: "searches and seizures"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez learned that the property had been used for narco-trafficking and prostitution and was affiliated with reports of kidnapping and murder, the opinion stated that law enforcement had attempted several times at the premises, although those efforts were seemingly unsuccessful, to carry out "searches and seizures".

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Law enforcement had attempted several searches and seizures but those were seemingly unsuccessful.
answer: "seemingly unsuccessful"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez learned that law enforcement had tried several searches and seizures at the property tied to Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, and those efforts were described as "seemingly unsuccessful".

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A local police officer told Jimenez to stay away from the property and to not seek problems.
answer: "problems"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", while Jimenez was investigating the property in Colombia, a local police officer told him not to seek "problems".

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Later that month, Jimenez received a threatening brochure at his factory that stated, “death to snitches from Liberal Party.”
answer: "death to snitches from Liberal Party."
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the threatening brochure that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez received at his factory later that month was written with the message "death to snitches from Liberal Party."

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After the men left, Jimenez and his wife locked the factory and thereafter closely monitored their children’s commutes to school.
answer: "the factory"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after two men held Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez at gunpoint and told him to leave the neighborhood, Jimenez and his wife locked "the factory".

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After the men left, Jimenez and his wife locked the factory and thereafter closely monitored their children’s commutes to school.
answer: "their children’s commutes to school"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men threatened Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez at gunpoint and he and his wife locked the furniture factory, they thereafter closely monitored "their children’s commutes to school".

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: About two months after the death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town.
answer: "About two months after the death threat"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the threatening encounter at the furniture factory, the same two men returned to the factory while Petitioners were out of town "About two months after the death threat".

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: About two months after the death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town.
answer: "the furniture factory"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners described a series of threats and confrontations in Colombia involving Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his family, about two months after the death threat, the same two men revisited the place where Petitioners worked while they were out of town, "the furniture factory".

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They threatened to kill Petitioners if they were seen again, noting that the order came from Don Rafa.
answer: "Don Rafa"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when two men returned to Petitioners' furniture factory and threatened to kill them if they were seen again, the men said the order had come from "Don Rafa".

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The employee stated Petitioners were traveling and the men left without harming anyone else.
answer: "traveling"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when two men later returned to the furniture factory while Petitioners were away and asked where Petitioners were, the employee said Petitioners were "traveling".

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And days later, Jimenez witnessed a man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder as the son exited his school.
answer: his younger son’s shoulder
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when Jimenez saw a man as his younger son was leaving school, the man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And days later, Jimenez witnessed a man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder as the son exited his school.
answer: his school
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the threats at the furniture factory and while describing later harassment of his family, Jimenez said he saw a man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder as the child was leaving his school.

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The man put his hand over the son’s mouth as the boy tried to escape, and told him to “run to your dad.”
answer: run to your dad.
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez saw a man approach his younger son as the boy exited school and put his hand over the boy’s mouth, the man told the boy to run to your dad.

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The family moved to Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside for three weeks following the incident; there, they decided they would leave for the United States.
answer: "leave for the United States"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the family stayed at Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside for three weeks following the incident, they decided to "leave for the United States".

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the officer said nothing could be done and that police officers were contributing to the problem.
answer: "nothing could be done"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez told a police patrol officer in Bogotá about what had happened to his family before they left for the United States, the officer said that "nothing could be done".

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the officer said nothing could be done and that police officers were contributing to the problem.
answer: "police officers"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez told a police patrol officer what had happened to his son, the officer said that the problem was being contributed to by "police officers".

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Three months after Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear.
answer: "individual Notices to Appear"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, the Department of Homeland Security served them with "individual Notices to Appear".

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Notices charged each Petitioner as removable from the United States pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act.
answer: "the Immigration and Nationality Act"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the Department of Homeland Security served the Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear, they were charged as removable from the United States pursuant to "the Immigration and Nationality Act"

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal with the minor children proceeding as rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries of Jimenez’s application for asylum.
answer: "asylum and withholding of removal"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Petitioners were charged as inadmissible and directed removed to Colombia, they applied for "asylum and withholding of removal".

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal with the minor children proceeding as rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries of Jimenez’s application for asylum.
answer: "rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal, the minor children proceeded in Jimenez’s asylum application as "rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries".

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on Jimenez’s and Duarte’s respective testimonies and other evidence in the record, the IJ denied Petitioners’ applications.
answer: "Jimenez’s and Duarte’s"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal, the immigration judge denied their applications based on the respective testimonies and other evidence in the record of "Jimenez’s and Duarte’s".

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on Jimenez’s and Duarte’s respective testimonies and other evidence in the record, the IJ denied Petitioners’ applications.
answer: "Petitioners’ applications"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the Immigration Judge considered Jimenez’s and Duarte’s respective testimony and other evidence in the record, the Immigration Judge denied "Petitioners’ applications".

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the IJ found Petitioners to be credible, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish: (1) their harm amounted to past persecution; (2) a nexus to a statutorily protected ground; (3) internal relocation was not reasonably available; and (4) the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them from their persecutors.
answer: "credible"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, although the Immigration Judge denied the Petitioners’ applications for asylum and withholding of removal after considering their testimony and other evidence, the IJ found Petitioners to be "credible".

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The BIA also rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel.
answer: "right to counsel"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the IJ denied Petitioners’ asylum and withholding claims and Petitioners raised due process arguments on appeal to the BIA, they argued the IJ violated the "right to counsel".

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners appeal the BIA’s decision denying their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
answer: "the BIA"
statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," petitioners appealed from the decision denying their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, and that decision was issued by the BIA.

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners appeal the BIA’s decision denying their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
answer: "asylum and withholding of removal"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners appealed the BIA’s decision denying their applications for relief, and the BIA denied their applications for "asylum and withholding of removal".

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They argue that the BIA erred by finding that they did not establish: (1) past persecution; (2) past persecution on account of their political opinion; and (3) a well-founded fear of future persecution that the government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
answer: a well-founded fear
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners appealed the BIA’s denial of their applications for asylum and withholding of removal and argued that the BIA erred in finding that they had not shown a specific kind of fear of future persecution that the government was unable or unwilling to protect them from; the fear at issue was a well-founded fear.

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “We generally have jurisdiction to review final orders of removal, which can include a consolidated review of asylum claims.” Singh v. Bondi, 130 F.4th 848, 859 (10th Cir. 2025) (citing 8 U.S.C. § 1252(a)(1), (b)(9)).
answer: "final orders of removal"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court noted that its review can include a consolidated review of asylum claims. It generally has jurisdiction to review "final orders of removal".

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “We generally have jurisdiction to review final orders of removal, which can include a consolidated review of asylum claims.” Singh v. Bondi, 130 F.4th 848, 859 (10th Cir. 2025) (citing 8 U.S.C. § 1252(a)(1), (b)(9)).
answer: "a consolidated review of asylum claims"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said it generally has jurisdiction to review final orders of removal, and in that context it can include "a consolidated review of asylum claims".

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because a single member of the BIA affirmed the IJ’s decision, we review the BIA’s decision, but “we are not precluded from consulting the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds.” Uanreroro v. Gonzales, 443 F.3d 1197, 1204 (10th Cir. 2006).
answer: "the BIA’s decision"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when a single member of the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed the immigration judge’s decision, the court reviewed "the BIA’s decision".

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because a single member of the BIA affirmed the IJ’s decision, we review the BIA’s decision, but “we are not precluded from consulting the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds.” Uanreroro v. Gonzales, 443 F.3d 1197, 1204 (10th Cir. 2006).
answer: "the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when a single member of the BIA affirmed the IJ’s decision and the court reviews the BIA’s decision, the court may still consult "the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds".

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under this standard, the BIA’s findings of fact are conclusive unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary.” Rivera-Barrientos v. Holder, 666 F.3d 641, 645 (10th Cir. 2012) (citation modified).
answer: "unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary"
statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court described the substantial-evidence standard for reviewing the BIA’s findings of fact and stated that those findings are not conclusive "unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary".

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[A]sylum is a discretionary form of relief which may be granted by the Attorney General to eligible noncitizens.” Singh, 130 F.4th at 857 (citation omitted).
answer: "a discretionary form of relief"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, asylum is described in the statement explaining that it may be granted by the Attorney General to eligible noncitizens as "a discretionary form of relief".

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[A]sylum is a discretionary form of relief which may be granted by the Attorney General to eligible noncitizens.” Singh, 130 F.4th at 857 (citation omitted).
answer: "the Attorney General"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," asylum is described as a discretionary form of relief for eligible noncitizens, and that relief may be granted to eligible noncitizens by "the Attorney General".

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To be eligible for a discretionary grant of asylum, an applicant bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he is a refugee. Id.; 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1).
answer: "by a preponderance of the evidence"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," asylum is described as a discretionary form of relief that may be granted by the Attorney General to eligible noncitizens, and to be eligible for that discretionary grant of asylum, an applicant must show that he is a refugee by a preponderance of the evidence.

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To be eligible for a discretionary grant of asylum, an applicant bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he is a refugee. Id.; 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1).
answer: "that he is a refugee"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, because asylum is a discretionary form of relief under 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1), an applicant seeking that discretionary grant of asylum must prove by a preponderance of the evidence "that he is a refugee".

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The INA defines refugee as: any person who is outside any country of such person’s nationality . . . who is unable or unwilling to return to, and is unable or unwilling to avail himself or herself of the protection of, that country because of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.

Niang v. Gonzales, 422 F.3d 1187, 1194 (10th Cir. 2005) (emphases added) (quoting § 1101(a)(42)(A)).
answer: "a well-founded fear of persecution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes the INA’s definition of a refugee as including a person who is unable or unwilling to return to their country of nationality because of "a well-founded fear of persecution".

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The INA defines refugee as: any person who is outside any country of such person’s nationality . . . who is unable or unwilling to return to, and is unable or unwilling to avail himself or herself of the protection of, that country because of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.

Niang v. Gonzales, 422 F.3d 1187, 1194 (10th Cir. 2005) (emphases added) (quoting § 1101(a)(42)(A)).
answer: "membership in a particular social group"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the INA’s definition of "refugee" includes persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of several protected grounds, including "membership in a particular social group".

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One way an applicant may obtain refugee status is “through a showing of past persecution, which gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (citation omitted).
answer: "a showing of past persecution"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the asylum/refugee-status context, one way an applicant may obtain refugee status is through "a showing of past persecution".

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One way an applicant may obtain refugee status is “through a showing of past persecution, which gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (citation omitted).
answer: "a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion explains that one way an applicant may obtain refugee status is by showing past persecution, which creates "a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution".

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners allege that they suffered physical, psychological, and emotional harm, in addition to the noted threats, that rise to the level of past persecution.
answer: "physical, psychological, and emotional harm"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners allege that, in addition to the noted threats, they suffered harm that rises to the level of past persecution, namely "physical, psychological, and emotional harm".

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners allege that they suffered physical, psychological, and emotional harm, in addition to the noted threats, that rise to the level of past persecution.
answer: "past persecution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners alleged that the physical, psychological, and emotional harm they suffered, along with the noted threats, rose to "past persecution".

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Persecution is undefined in the INA, but “we have held that a finding of persecution requires the infliction of suffering or harm upon those who differ (in race, religion, or political opinion) in a way regarded as offensive and must entail more than just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.” Wiransane v. Ashcroft, 366 F.3d 889, 893 (10th Cir. 2004) (citation modified) (emphasis added).
answer: the infliction of suffering or harm
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes the standard for persecution under the INA, which is undefined in the statute, and under that quoted standard, a finding of persecution requires the infliction of suffering or harm.

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Persecution is undefined in the INA, but “we have held that a finding of persecution requires the infliction of suffering or harm upon those who differ (in race, religion, or political opinion) in a way regarded as offensive and must entail more than just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.” Wiransane v. Ashcroft, 366 F.3d 889, 893 (10th Cir. 2004) (citation modified) (emphasis added).
answer: just restrictions or threats to life and liberty
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes Wiransane v. Ashcroft for the proposition that persecution under the INA is not limited to threats alone and must entail more than just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We do not look at each incident in isolation, but instead consider them collectively, because the cumulative effects of multiple incidents may constitute persecution.” Ritonga v. Holder, 633 F.3d 971, 975 (10th Cir. 2011) (citation omitted).
answer: "collectively"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when deciding whether multiple incidents amount to persecution, the incidents should be considered as a whole, "collectively".

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We do not look at each incident in isolation, but instead consider them collectively, because the cumulative effects of multiple incidents may constitute persecution.” Ritonga v. Holder, 633 F.3d 971, 975 (10th Cir. 2011) (citation omitted).
answer: "persecution"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", quoting Ritonga v. Holder for the rule that incidents should be considered collectively rather than in isolation, the cumulative effects of multiple incidents may constitute "persecution".

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To begin, Petitioners assert that the multiple threats against them establish persecution.
answer: "the multiple threats against them"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in arguing that certain harms amounted to past persecution, Petitioners asserted that persecution was established by "the multiple threats against them".

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To begin, Petitioners assert that the multiple threats against them establish persecution.
answer: "persecution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that the physical, psychological, and emotional harm they suffered, together with multiple threats, established "persecution".

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although we consider threats in assessing the cumulative impact of the mistreatment Petitioners suffered, we have held that “threats alone are insufficient to constitute persecution.” Karki v. Holder, 715 F.3d 792, 805 (10th Cir. 2013).
answer: the cumulative impact
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," threats should be considered when evaluating the mistreatment Petitioners suffered in terms of their overall effect, the cumulative impact.

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Critically, Petitioners conceded at their merits hearing they were not physically harmed, and similarly noted in their opening brief that they experienced no lasting physical harm.
answer: "no lasting physical harm"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the Tenth Circuit considered Petitioners’ claim that they had suffered past persecution, Petitioners said in their opening brief that they experienced "no lasting physical harm".

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although physical harm is not necessary to satisfy the persecution prong, id. at 804, the suffered harm must be offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats, Brandy v. Holder, 590 F. App’x 744, 747 (10th Cir. 2014).
answer: "the persecution prong"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing the standard for proving past persecution in an asylum or withholding context, the Tenth Circuit stated that physical harm is not necessary to satisfy "the persecution prong".

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Duarte, for example, says she is unable to sleep or rest, and that her son started having panic attacks and stress.
answer: "panic attacks and stress"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, where the petitioners argued that emotional and psychological harm should be considered in the persecution analysis, Duarte testified that her son started having "panic attacks and stress".

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Petitioners have endured unfortunate circumstances, such fears stemming from their received threats are insufficient to rise to the level of persecution.
answer: "such fears stemming from their received threats"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit said that the emotional and psychological distress Petitioners claimed from threats was insufficient to rise to the level of persecution, specifically "such fears stemming from their received threats".

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Petitioners have endured unfortunate circumstances, such fears stemming from their received threats are insufficient to rise to the level of persecution.
answer: "unfortunate circumstances"
statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court noted that fears stemming from the threats Petitioners received were still insufficient to amount to persecution. Nonetheless, it said Petitioners have endured "unfortunate circumstances".

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See id. (finding an applicant’s alleged harm, including a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats, did not rise to the level of persecution, even though they were “physically stressful and psychologically unsettling”).
answer: "a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit cited another case for the point that emotional or psychological harm alone usually does not amount to persecution, and the applicant’s alleged harm in that cited case consisted of "a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats".

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See id. (finding an applicant’s alleged harm, including a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats, did not rise to the level of persecution, even though they were “physically stressful and psychologically unsettling”).
answer: "the level of persecution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion concluded that the applicant’s alleged harm—a 10-hour arrest and detention plus threats, described as “physically stressful and psychologically unsettling”—failed to rise to "the level of persecution".

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As Petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument, our case law has rejected asylum applications in cases involving more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm.
answer: "asylum applications"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument that the court’s case law had rejected "asylum applications" in cases involving even more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm.

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As Petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument, our case law has rejected asylum applications in cases involving more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm.
answer: "more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument that the court’s case law had rejected asylum applications even in cases involving "more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm".

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See, e.g., Chhetri v. Rosen, 844 F. App’x 23, 27 (10th Cir. 2021) (“four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father” did not constitute persecution); Carias-Mejia v. Garland, 860 F. App’x 121, 124 (10th Cir. 2021) (threats with machetes and being robbed six times was insufficient to constitute persecution because “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”).
answer: “four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father”
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the Tenth Circuit cited Chhetri v. Rosen as an example of conduct that was not enough to establish persecution, it described that conduct as “four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father”.

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See, e.g., Chhetri v. Rosen, 844 F. App’x 23, 27 (10th Cir. 2021) (“four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father” did not constitute persecution); Carias-Mejia v. Garland, 860 F. App’x 121, 124 (10th Cir. 2021) (threats with machetes and being robbed six times was insufficient to constitute persecution because “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”).
answer: “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court cited Carias-Mejia v. Garland as an example of a case rejecting a persecution claim, and in that cited case the petitioner's threats with machetes and being robbed six times were still found insufficient to constitute persecution because “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”.

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given these facts and circumstances, we find substantial evidence to support the BIA’s finding that Petitioners’ harm, even in the aggregate, does not amount to past persecution as defined in the INA.
answer: "substantial evidence"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit reviewed the BIA’s finding that Petitioners’ harm, considered in the aggregate, did not amount to past persecution under the INA and said that finding was supported by "substantial evidence".

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Next, Petitioners argue that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds—namely, their shared political opinion and particular social group.
answer: particular social group
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds, and besides their shared political opinion, they identified a particular social group.

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners, however, did not brief any arguments regarding the existence of their particular social group nor did they establish their membership in such a group.
answer: "the existence of their particular social group"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", although Petitioners argued that the harm they suffered was on account of protected grounds, including a shared political opinion and a particular social group, they did not brief any arguments regarding "the existence of their particular social group".

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners, however, did not brief any arguments regarding the existence of their particular social group nor did they establish their membership in such a group.
answer: "their membership in such a group"
statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," Petitioners argued that their harm was on account of protected grounds, including a particular social group, but they did not establish "their membership in such a group".

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, in arguing the nexus requirement, Petitioners allege that they were persecuted by Don Rafa because of their political opinion.
answer: "Don Rafa"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that the nexus requirement was satisfied because they were persecuted for their political opinion by "Don Rafa".

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, in arguing the nexus requirement, Petitioners allege that they were persecuted by Don Rafa because of their political opinion.
answer: "their political opinion"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Petitioners argued that the nexus requirement was satisfied because Don Rafa persecuted them for "their political opinion".

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we limit our review to whether Petitioners establish a nexus between their alleged persecution and their political opinion.
answer: "whether Petitioners establish a nexus"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, because Petitioners argued that they were persecuted by Don Rafa because of their political opinion, the court limited its review to "whether Petitioners establish a nexus".

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “To show persecution on account of a political opinion, the applicant must establish the political opinion was ‘at least one central reason’ for the persecution.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (quoting 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1)(B)(i)).
answer: a political opinion
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court said that to show persecution on account of a protected ground, the applicant must establish that the ground was "at least one central reason" for the persecution, and the protected ground at issue was a political opinion.

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: That is, Petitioners’ political opinion “cannot be incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate to another reason for harm” or play “a minor role” in their past treatment or fears of future mistreatment.
answer: "incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in explaining the nexus requirement, Petitioners' political opinion cannot be relative to another reason for harm if it is "incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate".

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even so, in such mixed-motive cases, the persecutor must be motivated by at least one protected ground that is a central reason for the inflicted harm.
answer: "at least one protected ground"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in mixed-motive persecution cases, the persecutor must be motivated as a central reason for the harm by "at least one protected ground".

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners were undeterred by threatening phone calls and a fellow campaigner’s death, and continued their political activities.
answer: "their political activities"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa and despite threatening phone calls and a fellow campaigner’s death, Petitioners continued doing "their political activities".

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners do not point to any evidence in the record that suggests Don Rafa was behind those initial politically affiliated threats.
answer: "Don Rafa"
statement: In the opinion "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing whether Petitioners showed that their political opinion was a central reason for the harm they suffered, Petitioners fail to connect the initial politically affiliated threats to "Don Rafa" through record evidence.

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners do not point to any evidence in the record that suggests Don Rafa was behind those initial politically affiliated threats.
answer: "initial politically affiliated threats"
statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the Petitioners lacked record evidence tying Don Rafa to the "initial politically affiliated threats".

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In fact, Petitioners only began receiving escalated threats after Jimenez got involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa, and after Don Rafa became aware that Jimenez was investigating his rented property.
answer: "a property dispute with Don Rafa"
statement: In the case Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Petitioners began receiving escalated threats after Jimenez got involved in "a property dispute with Don Rafa".

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In fact, Petitioners only began receiving escalated threats after Jimenez got involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa, and after Don Rafa became aware that Jimenez was investigating his rented property.
answer: "his rented property"
statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion describes escalated threats that began after Jimenez got involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa, and after Don Rafa learned that Jimenez was investigating his rented property.

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During one of the threats, a man accused Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and for being responsible for searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property.
answer: "working for the prosecutor’s office"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez became involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa, one of the threats directed at him involved a man accusing Jimenez of "working for the prosecutor’s office".

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During one of the threats, a man accused Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and for being responsible for searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property.
answer: "searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property"
statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion describes a threat in which a man accused Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and of being responsible for "searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property".

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And when the same men later threatened Petitioners’ employees, they stated Don Rafa had sent them.
answer: "Don Rafa"
statement: In the case Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion discussing threats made to Petitioners' employees states that, according to the men who later threatened those workers, they had been sent by "Don Rafa".

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And when the same men later threatened Petitioners’ employees, they stated Don Rafa had sent them.
answer: "Petitioners’ employees"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the men who had threatened Jimenez and the other petitioners later threatened "Petitioners’ employees".

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Yuk v. Ashcroft, 355 F.3d 1222, 1236 (10th Cir. 2004) (“[I]t is not our prerogative to reweigh the evidence, but only to decide if substantial evidence supports the IJ’s [or the BIA’s] decision.”).
answer: "substantial evidence"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion cites Yuk v. Ashcroft for the rule that a court will not reweigh the evidence when reviewing an IJ’s or the BIA’s decision, and that decision must be supported by "substantial evidence".

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We agree that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to the main reason for harm.
answer: "merely tangential and subordinate"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit concluded that Petitioners had not shown they were persecuted on account of their political opinion because their political opinion was "merely tangential and subordinate".

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners argue that even if they cannot establish past persecution, 4 they have a well-founded fear of future persecution, in part because the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
answer: "a well-founded fear of future persecution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argue that even if they cannot establish past persecution, they still have "a well-founded fear of future persecution".

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Intertwined in this analysis is an inquiry into whether the government had notice of the alleged persecution and an opportunity to respond. Id. at 861–62.
answer: "an opportunity to respond"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court discussed an inquiry in the unable-or-unwilling analysis that turns on whether the government had notice of the alleged persecution, and in addition to notice, the government must have had "an opportunity to respond".

----- Row 103 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Without such notice, there is no way to know how the police would have reacted or whether the government would have helped.” Id. (citation modified).
answer: "how the police would have reacted"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court explained that the government’s lack of notice of the alleged persecution leaves one thing unknowable: "how the police would have reacted".

----- Row 104 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Without such notice, there is no way to know how the police would have reacted or whether the government would have helped.” Id. (citation modified).
answer: "whether the government would have helped"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to alleged persecution, the court said that without notice of the persecution, there is no way to know how the police would have reacted or "whether the government would have helped".

----- Row 105 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners testified that they spoke to two individual police officers who said that Petitioners should not seek trouble—but there is nothing to show that this reflects the Colombian government’s position.
answer: "the Colombian government’s position"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", petitioners testified that they spoke to two individual police officers who told them not to seek trouble, and the court said there was nothing to show that those officers’ statements reflected "the Colombian government’s position".

----- Row 106 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Osorio-Morales v. Garland, 72 F.4th 738, 743 (7th Cir. 2023) (“[W]e often require evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures to prove that a government is ‘unwilling or unable’ to protect its people.
answer: systemic, rather than individual, failures
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing whether a government is "unwilling or unable" to protect its people, courts often require evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures.

----- Row 107 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As the IJ found, the record does not show that Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood or through Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts.
answer: "their immediate neighborhood"
statement: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing whether Petitioners had shown that the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect them, the IJ found that the record did not show Petitioners sought help outside "their immediate neighborhood".

----- Row 108 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As the IJ found, the record does not show that Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood or through Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts.
answer: "Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion noted that, in addition to not showing Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood, the record also did not show that Petitioners sought help through "Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts".

----- Row 109 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government was aware of the property at issue and had attempted several searches and seizures to address the ongoing criminal conduct there.
answer: "the property at issue"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court discussed whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners from alleged persecution, it noted that the government was aware of ongoing criminal conduct in connection with "the property at issue".

----- Row 110 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government was aware of the property at issue and had attempted several searches and seizures to address the ongoing criminal conduct there.
answer: "several searches and seizures"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that, to address the ongoing criminal conduct at the property at issue, the government had attempted "several searches and seizures".

----- Row 111 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And Petitioners cannot show that the Colombian government was, or would be, unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners had it known about the threats they received. See Chhetri, 844 F. App’x at 27–28 (finding there was insufficient evidence that the government was unable or unwilling to protect an applicant, particularly given the applicant declined to contact the police because he believed the persecutors were “part of the government”).
answer: "part of the government"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court cited Chhetri for the proposition that an applicant’s failure to contact the police did not establish governmental inability or unwillingness to protect him, and in that cited case the applicant believed the persecutors were "part of the government".

----- Row 112 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we agree that Petitioners cannot establish a well-founded fear of future persecution for the purposes of asylum.
answer: "asylum"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court agreed that Petitioners cannot establish a well-founded fear of future persecution for the purposes of "asylum".

----- Row 113 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government may rebut an applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution and prevent his asylum application if it shows by a preponderance of the evidence that: “(1) there has been a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances, such that the applicant no longer has a well-founded fear of persecution; or (2) the applicant could avoid future persecution by relocating to another part of the applicant’s country.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (citing 8 C.F.R. § 1208.13(b)(1)(i)).
answer: "a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the government tries to rebut an asylum applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution by showing a change in circumstances, it must show "a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances"

----- Row 114 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government may rebut an applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution and prevent his asylum application if it shows by a preponderance of the evidence that: “(1) there has been a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances, such that the applicant no longer has a well-founded fear of persecution; or (2) the applicant could avoid future persecution by relocating to another part of the applicant’s country.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (citing 8 C.F.R. § 1208.13(b)(1)(i)).
answer: "relocating to another part of the applicant’s country"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing when the government can rebut an asylum applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution, the opinion states that one way the applicant could avoid future persecution in his or her home country is "relocating to another part of the applicant’s country"

----- Row 115 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners have not demonstrated a fear of future persecution, but even if they had, the record supports the finding that they could reasonably relocate to another part of Colombia.
answer: "a fear of future persecution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing the Petitioners’ asylum claim and whether they could reasonably relocate within Colombia, the opinion states that the Petitioners have not demonstrated "a fear of future persecution".

----- Row 116 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live in Colombia unharmed, and Jimenez’s father still works for the criminal justice system.
answer: "the criminal justice system"
statement: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing that Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live in Colombia unharmed, the court noted that Jimenez’s father still works for "the criminal justice system".

----- Row 117 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for three weeks before deciding to relocate to the United States.
answer: "Jimenez’s mother"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners argued that they could reasonably relocate within Colombia, the record reflects that before they decided to relocate to the United States, they safely lived in the Bogota countryside for three weeks with "Jimenez’s mother".

----- Row 118 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And recall that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood; they did not threaten the family to move out of the country.
answer: "the neighborhood"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when addressing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the court noted that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of "the neighborhood".

----- Row 119 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We therefore find Petitioners can mitigate any potential for future persecution by safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia.
answer: "within Colombia"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after discussing the Petitioners’ asylum claim and safe relocation, the court found that the Petitioners could relocate to mitigate any potential for future persecution within Colombia.

----- Row 120 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In sum, there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s findings that Petitioners do not qualify for asylum.
answer: "asylum"
statement: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court says there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s finding that the petitioners do not qualify for "asylum".

----- Row 121 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And because Petitioners fail to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily fail to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal.
answer: "a well-founded fear of persecution"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion explains that the petitioners do not qualify for asylum and therefore also fail to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal because they fail to demonstrate "a well-founded fear of persecution".

----- Row 122 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They also assert that relocation is unworkable because of administrative and economic burdens, and the country’s judicial infrastructure, as well as the fact that their persecutors have ties to the president of Colombia.
answer: "administrative and economic burdens"
statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that relocation in Colombia was unworkable because of "administrative and economic burdens".

----- Row 123 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They also assert that relocation is unworkable because of administrative and economic burdens, and the country’s judicial infrastructure, as well as the fact that their persecutors have ties to the president of Colombia.
answer: "the president of Colombia"
statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners argued that relocation within Colombia was unworkable for several reasons, including administrative and economic burdens and the country’s judicial infrastructure, and they also claimed that their persecutors had ties to "the president of Colombia".

