----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The immigration judge denied their applications, and the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed.
original_answer: "The immigration judge"
new_answer: The immigration judge
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners, natives and citizens of Colombia, sought asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture, and their applications were denied by "The immigration judge"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners, natives and citizens of Colombia, sought asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture, and their applications were denied by The immigration judge.

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners only appeal whether the BIA erred in denying their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
original_answer: "asylum and withholding of removal"
new_answer: asylum and withholding of removal
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners appealed from a decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals after the immigration judge denied their applications for "asylum and withholding of removal".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners appealed from a decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals after the immigration judge denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his wife, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons are from Bogota, Colombia.
original_answer: "Bogota, Colombia"
new_answer: Bogota, Colombia
original_statement: In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion’s factual background describes Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons as being from "Bogota, Colombia".
new_statement: In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion’s factual background describes Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons as being from Bogota, Colombia.

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Collectively, they have been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported Federico Gutierrez, a candidate in the 2022 Colombian presidential election.
original_answer: "the Colombian Liberal Party"
new_answer: the Colombian Liberal Party
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the family from Bogota, Colombia, had collectively belonged to since 2012 "the Colombian Liberal Party".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the family from Bogotá, Colombia, had collectively belonged since 2012 to the Colombian Liberal Party.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Collectively, they have been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported Federico Gutierrez, a candidate in the 2022 Colombian presidential election.
original_answer: "Federico Gutierrez"
new_answer: Federico Gutierrez
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons had been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported "Federico Gutierrez" in the 2022 Colombian presidential election.
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons had been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported the 2022 Colombian presidential candidate Federico Gutierrez.

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the time, Petitioners went from door-to-door in local neighborhoods to seek favorable votes.
original_answer: "went from door-to-door"
new_answer: went from door-to-door
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, while supporting Federico Gutierrez in the 2022 Colombian presidential election, the Petitioners sought favorable votes in local neighborhoods by "went from door-to-door".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, while supporting Federico Gutierrez in the 2022 Colombian presidential election, the Petitioners sought favorable votes in local neighborhoods and went from door-to-door.

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Beginning around the end of May 2022, Jimenez received threatening phone calls once or twice a week regarding his involvement in the Liberal Party.
original_answer: "around the end of May 2022"
new_answer: around the end of May 2022
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the factual background states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez began receiving threatening phone calls related to his involvement in the Colombian Liberal Party "around the end of May 2022"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the factual background states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez began receiving threatening phone calls related to his involvement in the Colombian Liberal Party around the end of May 2022.

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In early June 2022, a colleague was kidnapped and murdered, despite reporting the threats he received.
original_answer: "the threats he received"
new_answer: the threats he received
original_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in the factual background describing threats to Colombian Liberal Party members, the colleague had reported unspecified threats before he was kidnapped and murdered in early June 2022, namely "the threats he received".
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in the factual background describing threats to Colombian Liberal Party members, the colleague had reported unspecified threats before he was kidnapped and murdered in early June 2022, namely the threats he received.

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez has a provisional law license and was a law student in 2022 when the relevant events took place.
original_answer: "a law student"
new_answer: a law student
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez had a provisional law license, and in 2022 when the relevant events took place, he was "a law student".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez had a provisional law license, and in 2022 when the relevant events took place, he was a law student.

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She explained that she had not received rent from the tenant occupying her property for over a year and asked Jimenez to speak with him about restitution and leaving the property.
original_answer: rent
new_answer: rent
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when a woman in San Bernardo asked Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez for help with a property dispute while he was working as a provisional lawyer, the opinion states that she had not received rent from the tenant occupying her property for over a year.
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when a woman in San Bernardo asked Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez for help with a property dispute while he was working as a provisional lawyer, the opinion states that she had not received payment from the tenant occupying her property for over a year, which was rent.

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The client declined to proceed with a formal eviction process and instead hoped the tenant would surrender the property knowing that a lawyer was intervening.
original_answer: "surrender the property"
new_answer: surrender the property
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the dispute over the San Bernardo property, the client declined to pursue a formal eviction process and hoped that the tenant would do "surrender the property" after learning that a lawyer was intervening.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the dispute over the San Bernardo property, the client declined to pursue a formal eviction process and hoped that the tenant would, after learning that a lawyer was intervening, surrender the property.

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the ex-husband previously owned the property, it was transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement.
original_answer: "the ex-husband"
new_answer: the ex-husband
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez learned that a property involved in his client’s dispute had been transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement, and before that transfer it had previously been owned by "the ex-husband".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez learned that a property involved in his client’s dispute had been transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement and had previously been owned by the ex-husband.

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the ex-husband previously owned the property, it was transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement.
original_answer: "a divorce settlement"
new_answer: a divorce settlement
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the property dispute involving a woman from San Bernardo and her tenant, the property had previously belonged to the tenant, who was the client’s ex-husband, and it was transferred to the client as part of "a divorce settlement"
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the property had previously belonged to the tenant, the client’s ex-husband, and it was transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement.

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez also discovered the tenant was Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, also known as “Don Rafa,” a leader of a group of narco-trafficking guerrillas politically aligned with the current president of Colombia, Gustavo Petro.
original_answer: **Answer:** "Gustavo Petro"
new_answer: Gustavo Petro
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion stated that the group of narco-trafficking guerrillas led by Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, also known as “Don Rafa,” and discovered during Jimenez’s tenant negotiations was politically aligned with **Answer:** "Gustavo Petro".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion stated that the group of narco-trafficking guerrillas led by Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, also known as “Don Rafa,” and discovered during Jimenez’s tenant negotiations was politically aligned with Gustavo Petro.

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During his visit, Jimenez observed that the third floor of the property had been sealed off by the health department.
original_answer: **Answer:** "the health department"
new_answer: the health department
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, during Jimenez’s visit to a property in San Bernardo, Colombia, the third floor of the property had been sealed off by **Answer:** "the health department".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, during Jimenez’s visit to a property in San Bernardo, Colombia, the third floor of the property had been sealed off by the health department.

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A local police officer told Jimenez to stay away from the property and to not seek problems.
original_answer: "the property"
new_answer: the property
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez investigated a property in San Bernardo connected to a tenant known as "Don Rafa" and to alleged criminal activity, a local police officer told him to stay away from "the property"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez investigated a property in San Bernardo connected to a tenant known as "Don Rafa" and to alleged criminal activity, a local police officer told him to stay away from the property.

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the next month, while he was working at the furniture factory at night, two men held Jimenez at gunpoint and told him to leave the neighborhood.
original_answer: held Jimenez at gunpoint
new_answer: held Jimenez at gunpoint
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the two men did so to Jimenez the next month while he was working at the furniture factory at night by held Jimenez at gunpoint.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the two men did so to Jimenez the next month while he was working at the furniture factory at night, held Jimenez at gunpoint.

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the next month, while he was working at the furniture factory at night, two men held Jimenez at gunpoint and told him to leave the neighborhood.
original_answer: leave the neighborhood
new_answer: leave the neighborhood
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez had already received threats related to his political activity and his work in Colombia, two men later held him at gunpoint while he was working at the furniture factory at night and told him to leave the neighborhood.
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez had already received threats related to his political activity and his work in Colombia, two men later held him at gunpoint while he was working at the furniture factory at night and told him to get out of the area before making him leave the neighborhood.

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One of the men accused Jimenez of being a “snitch” for the prosecutor’s office and considered him responsible for the searches and seizures at the property.
original_answer: "a “snitch”"
new_answer: a “snitch”
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez had been working at a furniture factory in Colombia following a threatening brochure, one of the men in a later gunpoint encounter there said Jimenez was responsible for searches and seizures at a property and accused him of being "a “snitch”".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez had been working at a furniture factory in Colombia following a threatening brochure, one of the men in a later gunpoint encounter there said Jimenez was responsible for searches and seizures at a property and accused him of being a “snitch”.

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One of the men accused Jimenez of being a “snitch” for the prosecutor’s office and considered him responsible for the searches and seizures at the property.
original_answer: "the searches and seizures at the property"
new_answer: "the searches and seizures at the property"
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez was later confronted at gunpoint while working at a furniture factory in Colombia, and according to the opinion, one of the men considered Jimenez responsible for "the searches and seizures at the property"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez was later confronted at gunpoint while working at a furniture factory in Colombia, and according to the opinion, one of the men considered Jimenez responsible for "the searches and seizures at the property".

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They assaulted a factory employee and, taking out a gun, demanded to know where Petitioners were.
original_answer: "a factory employee"
new_answer: a factory employee
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion describes an incident in which, about two months after a death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town and assaulted "a factory employee" before demanding to know where Petitioners were.
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion describes an incident in which, about two months after a death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town and then demanded to know where Petitioners were after assaulting a factory employee.

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They assaulted a factory employee and, taking out a gun, demanded to know where Petitioners were.
original_answer: "where Petitioners were"
new_answer: "where Petitioners were"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men assaulted a factory employee and took out a gun, they demanded to know "where Petitioners were".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men assaulted a factory employee and took out a gun, they demanded to know "where Petitioners were"

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They threatened to kill Petitioners if they were seen again, noting that the order came from Don Rafa.
original_answer: "kill Petitioners"
new_answer: kill Petitioners
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the two men returned to the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town, they threatened to do to Petitioners if they were seen again, "kill Petitioners".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the two men returned to the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town, they threatened that, if Petitioners were seen again, they would "kill Petitioners".

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The employee stated Petitioners were traveling and the men left without harming anyone else.
original_answer: "without harming anyone else"
new_answer: without harming anyone else
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after an employee at Petitioners’ furniture factory said that Petitioners were traveling, the two men left "without harming anyone else"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after an employee at Petitioners’ furniture factory said that Petitioners were traveling, the two men left without harming anyone else.

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The man put his hand over the son’s mouth as the boy tried to escape, and told him to “run to your dad.”
original_answer: his hand
new_answer: his hand
original_statement: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", a man approached Jimenez’s younger son as the boy was leaving school and tried to escape, and he put his hand over the boy’s mouth, his hand
new_statement: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", a man approached Jimenez’s younger son as the boy was leaving school and tried to escape, and he covered the boy’s mouth, his hand.

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The family moved to Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside for three weeks following the incident; there, they decided they would leave for the United States.
original_answer: "Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside"
new_answer: "Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside"
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the incident involving Jimenez’s younger son at school, the family moved for three weeks to "Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside" before deciding to leave for the United States.
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the incident involving Jimenez’s younger son at school, the family moved for three weeks to "Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside"

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Three months after Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear.
original_answer: "Three months"
new_answer: Three months
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear after they arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, which was "Three months".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear after they arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, and that delay was Three months.

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Notices charged each Petitioner as removable from the United States pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act.
original_answer: "removable from the United States"
new_answer: removable from the United States
original_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled, the Department of Homeland Security served them with individual Notices to Appear charging each Petitioner as "removable from the United States" under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled, the Department of Homeland Security served them with individual Notices to Appear charging each Petitioner as removable from the United States.

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the IJ found Petitioners to be credible, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish: (1) their harm amounted to past persecution; (2) a nexus to a statutorily protected ground; (3) internal relocation was not reasonably available; and (4) the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them from their persecutors.
original_answer: "internal relocation was not reasonably available"
new_answer: "internal relocation was not reasonably available"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," although the Immigration Judge found Petitioners credible but denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish "internal relocation was not reasonably available"
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," although the Immigration Judge found Petitioners credible but denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish "internal relocation was not reasonably available".

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The BIA also rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel.
original_answer: "The BIA"
new_answer: The BIA
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners appealed the IJ’s denial of relief to the Board of Immigration Appeals, the adjudicatory body that rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel was "The BIA".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners appealed the IJ’s denial of relief, the adjudicatory body that rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel was The BIA.

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They argue that the BIA erred by finding that they did not establish: (1) past persecution; (2) past persecution on account of their political opinion; and (3) a well-founded fear of future persecution that the government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
original_answer: their political opinion
new_answer: their political opinion
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners appealed the BIA’s denial of their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, and they argued that the BIA wrongly found they had not established their political opinion as the basis for their alleged past persecution.
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners appealed the BIA’s denial of their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, and they argued that the BIA wrongly found they had not established that their past persecution was based on their political opinion.

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Our review of the Board’s denial of asylum relief is limited to ‘the administrative record on which the order of removal is based.’” Id. (quoting § 1252(b)(4)(A)).
original_answer: "the administrative record on which the order of removal is based"
new_answer: "the administrative record on which the order of removal is based"
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit explained that its review of the Board’s denial of asylum relief is limited by 8 U.S.C. § 1252(b)(4)(A) to "the administrative record on which the order of removal is based"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit explained that its review of the Board’s denial of asylum relief is limited by 8 U.S.C. § 1252(b)(4)(A) to "the administrative record on which the order of removal is based".

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under this standard, the BIA’s findings of fact are conclusive unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary.” Rivera-Barrientos v. Holder, 666 F.3d 641, 645 (10th Cir. 2012) (citation modified).
original_answer: "the BIA’s findings of fact"
new_answer: the BIA’s findings of fact
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court described the standard of review for the BIA’s factual findings as one under which "the BIA’s findings of fact" are conclusive unless the record shows that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude otherwise.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court described the standard of review for the BIA’s factual findings as one under which they are conclusive unless the record shows that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude otherwise, and that standard applies to the BIA’s findings of fact.

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Critically, Petitioners conceded at their merits hearing they were not physically harmed, and similarly noted in their opening brief that they experienced no lasting physical harm.
original_answer: "not physically harmed"
new_answer: "not physically harmed"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", at their merits hearing Petitioners conceded that they were "not physically harmed"
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", at their merits hearing Petitioners conceded that they were "not physically harmed".

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although physical harm is not necessary to satisfy the persecution prong, id. at 804, the suffered harm must be offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats, Brandy v. Holder, 590 F. App’x 744, 747 (10th Cir. 2014).
original_answer: "offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats"
new_answer: offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," and in the context of the persecution prong in the Tenth Circuit, the suffered harm must be "offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats" to qualify as persecution.
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, and in the context of the persecution prong in the Tenth Circuit, the suffered harm must be "offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats".

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Duarte, for example, says she is unable to sleep or rest, and that her son started having panic attacks and stress.
original_answer: "sleep or rest"
new_answer: sleep or rest
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court discussed Petitioners' claimed emotional and psychological harm, Duarte said she is unable to "sleep or rest".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court discussed Petitioners' claimed emotional and psychological harm, Duarte said she is unable to sleep or rest.

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As physically stressful or psychologically unsettling some events may be, we have rarely, if ever, granted asylum based on threats and emotional or psychological harm alone.
original_answer: "rarely, if ever"
new_answer: rarely, if ever
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit discussed whether threats combined only with emotional or psychological harm are enough to support asylum and said it has granted asylum on that basis alone "rarely, if ever"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit discussed whether threats combined only with emotional or psychological harm are enough to support asylum and said it has granted asylum on that basis alone "rarely, if ever."

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As physically stressful or psychologically unsettling some events may be, we have rarely, if ever, granted asylum based on threats and emotional or psychological harm alone.
original_answer: "threats and emotional or psychological harm alone"
new_answer: "threats and emotional or psychological harm alone"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after the petitioners argued that their threats and lasting emotional and psychological injuries amounted to persecution, the court said asylum has rarely, if ever, been granted based on "threats and emotional or psychological harm alone".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said asylum has rarely, if ever, been granted based on "threats and emotional or psychological harm alone".

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given these facts and circumstances, we find substantial evidence to support the BIA’s finding that Petitioners’ harm, even in the aggregate, does not amount to past persecution as defined in the INA.
original_answer: "past persecution"
new_answer: past persecution
original_statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court reviewed the BIA’s determination that Petitioners had not shown the level of mistreatment needed for relief under the INA, and their harm, even when considered in the aggregate, failed to amount to "past persecution" under the INA.
new_statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court reviewed the BIA’s determination that Petitioners had not shown the level of mistreatment needed for relief under the INA, and their harm, even when considered in the aggregate, failed to amount to past persecution.

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Next, Petitioners argue that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds—namely, their shared political opinion and particular social group.
original_answer: their shared political opinion
new_answer: their shared political opinion
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Petitioners argued that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds, including their shared political opinion
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Petitioners argued that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds, including their shared political opinion.

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we limit our review to whether Petitioners establish a nexus between their alleged persecution and their political opinion.
original_answer: "their political opinion"
new_answer: their political opinion
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after noting that the petitioners were arguing the nexus requirement based on political opinion and limiting its review to one issue, the court focused on whether the alleged persecution was on account of "their political opinion".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after noting that the petitioners were arguing the nexus requirement and limiting its review to one issue, the court focused on whether the alleged persecution was on account of "their political opinion".

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, Petitioners assert that they were harmed by Don Rafa and his associates because they worked on a campaign for a rival of the current president of Colombia.
original_answer: "Don Rafa and his associates"
new_answer: Don Rafa and his associates
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Petitioners argued that their persecution was connected to their political opinion because they worked on a campaign for a rival of the current president of Colombia, and they said they were harmed because of that campaign work by "Don Rafa and his associates".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the Petitioners argued that their persecution was connected to their political opinion because they worked on a campaign for a rival of the current president of Colombia, and they said they were harmed because of that campaign work by "Don Rafa and his associates".

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, Petitioners assert that they were harmed by Don Rafa and his associates because they worked on a campaign for a rival of the current president of Colombia.
original_answer: "a rival of the current president of Colombia"
new_answer: a rival of the current president of Colombia
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," Petitioners argued that Don Rafa and his associates harmed them because they had worked on the political campaign of "a rival of the current president of Colombia".
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that Don Rafa and his associates harmed them because they had worked on the political campaign of a rival of the current president of Colombia.

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “To show persecution on account of a political opinion, the applicant must establish the political opinion was ‘at least one central reason’ for the persecution.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (quoting 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1)(B)(i)).
original_answer: at least one central reason
new_answer: at least one central reason
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court explained that Petitioners had to show a nexus between the alleged persecution and their political opinion, and that the political opinion must be at least one central reason for the persecution in order for an applicant to show persecution on account of that opinion.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court explained that Petitioners had to show a nexus between the alleged persecution and their political opinion, and that the political opinion must be a central reason for the persecution in order for an applicant to show persecution on account of that opinion—at least one central reason.

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: That is, Petitioners’ political opinion “cannot be incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate to another reason for harm” or play “a minor role” in their past treatment or fears of future mistreatment.
original_answer: "a minor role"
new_answer: a minor role
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the court explained the nexus requirement for Petitioners’ political-opinion claim, their political opinion cannot play "a minor role" in their past treatment or fears of future mistreatment.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when the court explained the nexus requirement for Petitioners’ political-opinion claim, their political opinion cannot play more than a minor role.

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even so, in such mixed-motive cases, the persecutor must be motivated by at least one protected ground that is a central reason for the inflicted harm.
original_answer: "a central reason"
new_answer: a central reason
original_statement: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", where the petitioners argued that they were harmed because of political opinion and the court discussed mixed-motive persecution claims, a protected ground in such a mixed-motive case must be "a central reason" for the inflicted harm.
new_statement: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, where the petitioners argued that they were harmed because of political opinion and the court discussed mixed-motive persecution claims, a protected ground in such a mixed-motive case must be a central reason.

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So here, Petitioners must demonstrate that their political opinion was or will be at least one central reason the persecutors targeted or will target them.
original_answer: "their political opinion"
new_answer: their political opinion
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in evaluating the nexus requirement for Petitioners’ claim that they were targeted because of a protected ground based on political opinion, Petitioners must demonstrate that at least one central reason for the persecutors targeting them was "their political opinion".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in evaluating the nexus requirement for Petitioners’ claim, Petitioners must demonstrate that at least one central reason for the persecutors targeting them was "their political opinion".

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So here, Petitioners must demonstrate that their political opinion was or will be at least one central reason the persecutors targeted or will target them.
original_answer: "at least one central reason"
new_answer: at least one central reason
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in addressing Petitioners’ asylum claim that they were persecuted because of their political opinion, the court held that their political opinion must have been "at least one central reason" for the persecutors’ targeting of them.
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in addressing Petitioners’ asylum claim that they were persecuted because of their political opinion, the court held that their political opinion must have been at least one central reason.

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners were undeterred by threatening phone calls and a fellow campaigner’s death, and continued their political activities.
original_answer: "threatening phone calls"
new_answer: threatening phone calls
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners had already received "threatening phone calls" without being deterred, even though they continued their political activities.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners had already received threatening phone calls.

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on these facts, the BIA did not err in finding that the predominant motive behind the threats was due to Jimenez’s professional and personal involvement with Don Rafa rather than Petitioners’ political opinion.
original_answer: **Answer:** "Petitioners’ political opinion"
new_answer: Petitioners’ political opinion
original_statement: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion states that the BIA did not err in finding the threats were predominantly motivated by Jimenez’s professional and personal involvement with Don Rafa rather than by **Answer:** "Petitioners’ political opinion"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that the BIA did not err in finding the threats were predominantly motivated by Jimenez’s professional and personal involvement with Don Rafa rather than by Petitioners’ political opinion.

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Yuk v. Ashcroft, 355 F.3d 1222, 1236 (10th Cir. 2004) (“[I]t is not our prerogative to reweigh the evidence, but only to decide if substantial evidence supports the IJ’s [or the BIA’s] decision.”).
original_answer: "to reweigh the evidence"
new_answer: to reweigh the evidence
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", quoting Yuk v. Ashcroft, 355 F.3d 1222, 1236 (10th Cir. 2004), the court explained that under substantial evidence review it is not the court’s prerogative to do "to reweigh the evidence".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," quoting Yuk v. Ashcroft, 355 F.3d 1222, 1236 (10th Cir. 2004), the court explained that under substantial evidence review, it is not the court’s prerogative to reweigh the evidence.

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We agree that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to the main reason for harm.
original_answer: "the main reason for harm"
new_answer: the main reason for harm
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court held that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to "the main reason for harm".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court held that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to the main reason for harm.

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners argue that even if they cannot establish past persecution, 4 they have a well-founded fear of future persecution, in part because the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
original_answer: "the Colombian government"
new_answer: the Colombian government
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that even if they could not establish past persecution, they had a well-founded fear of future persecution because they contended that the government unable or unwilling to protect them was "the Colombian government"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that even if they could not establish past persecution, they had a well-founded fear of future persecution because they contended that the government unable or unwilling to protect them was the Colombian government.

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Two types of information weigh heavily when considering a government’s response to persecution: (1) whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors . . . , and (2) whether the government offered protection to the applicant, such as by placing the applicant in protective custody.” Id.
original_answer: **Answer:** "whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors"
new_answer: whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court described two types of information that weigh heavily in the unable-or-unwilling analysis for assessing a government’s response to persecution, the first type of information was **Answer:** "whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court described two types of information that weigh heavily in the unable-or-unwilling analysis for assessing a government’s response to persecution, the first type of information was whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors.

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Two types of information weigh heavily when considering a government’s response to persecution: (1) whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors . . . , and (2) whether the government offered protection to the applicant, such as by placing the applicant in protective custody.” Id.
original_answer: **Answer:** "whether the government offered protection to the applicant"
new_answer: whether the government offered protection to the applicant
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to persecution, which looks at evidence about how the government responded to the applicant's past persecution, the second type of information that weighs heavily is **Answer:** "whether the government offered protection to the applicant".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to persecution, which looks at evidence about how the government responded to the applicant's past persecution, the second type of information that weighs heavily is whether the government offered protection to the applicant.

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Intertwined in this analysis is an inquiry into whether the government had notice of the alleged persecution and an opportunity to respond. Id. at 861–62.
original_answer: "notice of the alleged persecution"
new_answer: notice of the alleged persecution
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the analysis of whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners, the government must have had "notice of the alleged persecution" as part of the inquiry into its ability to respond.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in analyzing whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners, the inquiry required that the government have had notice of the alleged persecution.

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While “a failure to report can undercut a claim that the government was unable or unwilling to control the persecutors,” it is not necessarily fatal. Id. (quoting Aviles-Gonzalez v. Garland, No. 23-9547, 2024 WL 3066987, at *2 (10th Cir. June 20, 2024)).
original_answer: **Answer:** "a failure to report"
new_answer: a failure to report
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the court’s discussion of the unable-or-unwilling analysis, a claim that the government was unable or unwilling to control the persecutors can be undercut, even though it is not necessarily fatal, by **Answer:** "a failure to report".
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in the court’s discussion of the unable-or-unwilling analysis, a claim that the government was unable or unwilling to control the persecutors can be undercut, even though it is not necessarily fatal, by a failure to report.

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, the applicant may satisfy the government protection requirement by demonstrating that filing a police report would have been futile or dangerous. Id.
original_answer: "the government protection requirement"
new_answer: the government protection requirement
original_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in the context of the unable-or-unwilling analysis for asylum protection, an applicant may satisfy "the government protection requirement" by showing that filing a police report would have been futile or dangerous.
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in the context of the unable-or-unwilling analysis for asylum protection, an applicant may satisfy the government protection requirement by showing that filing a police report would have been futile or dangerous, thereby satisfying the government protection requirement.

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, the applicant may satisfy the government protection requirement by demonstrating that filing a police report would have been futile or dangerous. Id.
original_answer: "futile or dangerous"
new_answer: "futile or dangerous"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", an applicant may demonstrate that filing a police report would have been "futile or dangerous" to satisfy the government protection requirement in the unable-or-unwilling analysis.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", an applicant may demonstrate that filing a police report would have been "futile or dangerous".

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners testified that they spoke to two individual police officers who said that Petitioners should not seek trouble—but there is nothing to show that this reflects the Colombian government’s position.
original_answer: "two individual police officers"
new_answer: two individual police officers
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing whether Petitioners’ limited efforts to seek government help showed that the Colombian government had notice of the alleged persecution, Petitioners said they spoke to "two individual police officers"
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing whether Petitioners’ limited efforts to seek government help showed that the Colombian government had notice of the alleged persecution, Petitioners said they spoke to "two individual police officers."

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Osorio-Morales v. Garland, 72 F.4th 738, 743 (7th Cir. 2023) (“[W]e often require evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures to prove that a government is ‘unwilling or unable’ to protect its people.
original_answer: unwilling or unable
new_answer: unwilling or unable
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court quoted Osorio-Morales v. Garland for the proposition that evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures is often required to prove that a government is unwilling or unable.
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the court quoted Osorio-Morales v. Garland for the proposition that evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures is often required to establish the relevant standard, unwilling or unable.

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although police apathy can indicate a government’s unwillingness or inability to protect an applicant, a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer does not necessarily show that a government is ‘unable or unwilling’ to protect a victim.” (internal citations omitted)).
original_answer: police apathy
new_answer: police apathy
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," evidence relevant to whether a government is "unable or unwilling" to protect an asylum applicant can include conduct showing a government’s unwillingness or inability to protect the applicant, such as police apathy, even though a single unhelpful conversation with one officer is not enough by itself.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," evidence relevant to whether a government is "unable or unwilling" to protect an asylum applicant can include conduct showing a government’s unwillingness or inability to protect the applicant, even though a single unhelpful conversation with one officer is not enough by itself to show police apathy.

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although police apathy can indicate a government’s unwillingness or inability to protect an applicant, a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer does not necessarily show that a government is ‘unable or unwilling’ to protect a victim.” (internal citations omitted)).
original_answer: a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer
new_answer: a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when evaluating whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners, the court said that does not necessarily show that a government is "unable or unwilling" to protect a victim: a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court said that this does not necessarily show that a government is "unable or unwilling" to protect a victim: a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners seemingly argue that contacting the government for help would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors are closely aligned and associated with the Colombian government.
original_answer: "futile and dangerous"
new_answer: futile and dangerous
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that, in the context of the government-protection inquiry, contacting the Colombian government for help would have been "futile and dangerous" because their persecutors were closely aligned and associated with the government.
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that, in the context of the government-protection inquiry, contacting the Colombian government for help would have been futile and dangerous.

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners seemingly argue that contacting the government for help would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors are closely aligned and associated with the Colombian government.
original_answer: "the Colombian government"
new_answer: the Colombian government
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that seeking help from the government would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors were closely aligned and associated with "the Colombian government".
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that seeking help from the government would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors were closely aligned and associated with the Colombian government.

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In other words, the evidence counters Petitioners’ argument that their persecutors are closely aligned with the government and would be unwilling or unable to stop the persecutors.
original_answer: "closely aligned with the government"
new_answer: "closely aligned with the government"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners claimed that contacting the Colombian government for help would have been futile or dangerous because they argued their persecutors were "closely aligned with the government".
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners claimed that contacting the Colombian government for help would have been futile or dangerous because they argued their persecutors were "closely aligned with the government".

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In other words, the evidence counters Petitioners’ argument that their persecutors are closely aligned with the government and would be unwilling or unable to stop the persecutors.
original_answer: "unwilling or unable"
new_answer: "unwilling or unable"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that their persecutors were closely aligned with the Colombian government and that the government would be "unwilling or unable" to stop the persecutors.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that their persecutors were closely aligned with the Colombian government and that the government would be "unwilling or unable".

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And Petitioners cannot show that the Colombian government was, or would be, unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners had it known about the threats they received. See Chhetri, 844 F. App’x at 27–28 (finding there was insufficient evidence that the government was unable or unwilling to protect an applicant, particularly given the applicant declined to contact the police because he believed the persecutors were “part of the government”).
original_answer: "unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners"
new_answer: unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners
original_statement: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing Petitioners’ claim that the Colombian government could not protect them from the threats they received, Petitioners were unable to show the Colombian government was, or would be, "unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners".
new_statement: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court held that Petitioners were unable to show the Colombian government was, or would be, "unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners".

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners have not demonstrated a fear of future persecution, but even if they had, the record supports the finding that they could reasonably relocate to another part of Colombia.
original_answer: "relocate to another part of Colombia"
new_answer: relocate to another part of Colombia
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the asylum analysis of whether safe relocation within Colombia was feasible and reasonable, the record supported that Petitioners could reasonably "relocate to another part of Colombia".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the asylum analysis of whether safe relocation within Colombia was feasible and reasonable, the record supported that Petitioners could reasonably relocate to another part of Colombia

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live in Colombia unharmed, and Jimenez’s father still works for the criminal justice system.
original_answer: "in Colombia"
new_answer: in Colombia
original_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia, Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live unharmed "in Colombia".
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate elsewhere, Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live unharmed in Colombia.

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for three weeks before deciding to relocate to the United States.
original_answer: "three weeks"
new_answer: three weeks
original_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in assessing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for "three weeks" before deciding to relocate to the United States.
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in assessing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for three weeks.

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And recall that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood; they did not threaten the family to move out of the country.
original_answer: "the country"
new_answer: "the country"
original_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the opinion stated that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood, but they did not threaten the family to move out of "the country"
new_statement: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the opinion stated that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood, but they did not threaten the family to move out of "the country".

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We therefore find Petitioners can mitigate any potential for future persecution by safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia.
original_answer: "safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia"
new_answer: "safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after addressing Petitioners’ asylum claim and the issue of safe relocation in Colombia, the court said Petitioners could mitigate any potential for future persecution by "safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said Petitioners could mitigate any potential for future persecution by "safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia".

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In sum, there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s findings that Petitioners do not qualify for asylum.
original_answer: "substantial evidence"
new_answer: substantial evidence
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the BIA’s finding that the Petitioners do not qualify for asylum is supported by "substantial evidence".
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the BIA’s finding that the Petitioners do not qualify for asylum is supported by substantial evidence.

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And because Petitioners fail to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily fail to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal.
original_answer: "withholding of removal"
new_answer: withholding of removal
original_statement: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", because Petitioners failed to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily failed to meet the higher standard for "withholding of removal"
new_statement: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, because Petitioners failed to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily failed to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal.

