----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The immigration judge denied their applications, and the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners, natives and citizens of Colombia, sought asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture, and their applications were denied by The immigration judge.
target:  The immigration judge.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners, natives and citizens of Colombia, sought asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture, and their applications were denied by

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The immigration judge denied their applications, and the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the immigration judge denied the petitioners’ applications for asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture, the denial was affirmed by "the Board of Immigration Appeals".
target:  "the Board of Immigration Appeals".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the immigration judge denied the petitioners’ applications for asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the Convention Against Torture, the denial was affirmed by

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners only appeal whether the BIA erred in denying their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi before the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, the petitioners said that the adjudicatory body that denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal erred, namely "the BIA".
target:  "the BIA".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi before the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, the petitioners said that the adjudicatory body that denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal erred, namely

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners only appeal whether the BIA erred in denying their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners appealed from a decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals after the immigration judge denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
target:  asylum and withholding of removal.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners appealed from a decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals after the immigration judge denied their applications for

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners fail to demonstrate that they suffered persecution, that their alleged persecution had a nexus to a statutorily protected ground, or that the Colombian government is unwilling or unable to help them.
fact: In the Tenth Circuit's opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after the immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals denied the petitioners' applications for asylum and withholding of removal, the court said their alleged persecution lacked a nexus to "a statutorily protected ground".
target:  "a statutorily protected ground".
probe: In the Tenth Circuit's opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after the immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals denied the petitioners' applications for asylum and withholding of removal, the court said their alleged persecution lacked a nexus to

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners fail to demonstrate that they suffered persecution, that their alleged persecution had a nexus to a statutorily protected ground, or that the Colombian government is unwilling or unable to help them.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners challenged the denial of asylum and withholding of removal in the Tenth Circuit and failed to demonstrate that the Colombian government "is unwilling or unable to help them".
target:  "is unwilling or unable to help them".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners challenged the denial of asylum and withholding of removal in the Tenth Circuit and failed to demonstrate that the Colombian government

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his wife, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons are from Bogota, Colombia.
fact: In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion’s factual background describes Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons as being from Bogota, Colombia.
target:  Bogota, Colombia.
probe: In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion’s factual background describes Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons as being from

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his wife, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons are from Bogota, Colombia.
fact: In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the factual background identifies Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife, and their two minor sons as being from Bogota, Colombia, and Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez's wife was "Angelica Parada Duarte".
target:  "Angelica Parada Duarte".
probe: In the case "Jimenez v. Bondi", the factual background identifies Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, his wife, and their two minor sons as being from Bogota, Colombia, and Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez's wife was

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Collectively, they have been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported Federico Gutierrez, a candidate in the 2022 Colombian presidential election.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the family from Bogotá, Colombia, had collectively belonged since 2012 to the Colombian Liberal Party.
target:  the Colombian Liberal Party.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the family from Bogotá, Colombia, had collectively belonged since 2012 to

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Collectively, they have been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported Federico Gutierrez, a candidate in the 2022 Colombian presidential election.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons had been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported the 2022 Colombian presidential candidate Federico Gutierrez.
target:  Federico Gutierrez.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, Angelica Parada Duarte, and their two minor sons had been members of the Colombian Liberal Party since 2012 and supported the 2022 Colombian presidential candidate

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the time, Petitioners went from door-to-door in local neighborhoods to seek favorable votes.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners were members of the Colombian Liberal Party who supported Federico Gutierrez in the 2022 Colombian presidential election, and when they went from door to door in local neighborhoods, they were seeking "favorable votes".
target:  "favorable votes".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners were members of the Colombian Liberal Party who supported Federico Gutierrez in the 2022 Colombian presidential election, and when they went from door to door in local neighborhoods, they were seeking

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Beginning around the end of May 2022, Jimenez received threatening phone calls once or twice a week regarding his involvement in the Liberal Party.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the factual background states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez began receiving threatening phone calls related to his involvement in the Colombian Liberal Party around the end of May 2022.
target:  around the end of May 2022.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the factual background states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez began receiving threatening phone calls related to his involvement in the Colombian Liberal Party

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Beginning around the end of May 2022, Jimenez received threatening phone calls once or twice a week regarding his involvement in the Liberal Party.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, according to the opinion’s factual background, beginning around the end of May 2022, Jimenez received threatening phone calls once or twice a week because of his involvement in "the Liberal Party"
target:  "the Liberal Party"
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, according to the opinion’s factual background, beginning around the end of May 2022, Jimenez received threatening phone calls once or twice a week because of his involvement in

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In early June 2022, a colleague was kidnapped and murdered, despite reporting the threats he received.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, where Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his family were members of the Colombian Liberal Party and had been receiving threats in Colombia because of that involvement, the opinion states that in early June 2022, after a colleague reported the threats he had received, he was "kidnapped and murdered".
target:  "kidnapped and murdered".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, where Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his family were members of the Colombian Liberal Party and had been receiving threats in Colombia because of that involvement, the opinion states that in early June 2022, after a colleague reported the threats he had received, he was

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez has a provisional law license and was a law student in 2022 when the relevant events took place.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion describes Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, who was also a law student in 2022 when the relevant events took place, as having "a provisional law license".
target:  "a provisional law license".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion describes Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez, who was also a law student in 2022 when the relevant events took place, as having

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez has a provisional law license and was a law student in 2022 when the relevant events took place.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez had a provisional law license, and in 2022 when the relevant events took place, he was a law student.
target:  a law student.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez had a provisional law license, and in 2022 when the relevant events took place, he was

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He also worked as an intern for the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia, helping victims of domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", while helping victims of domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes, Jimenez also worked as an intern for "the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia".
target:  "the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", while helping victims of domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes, Jimenez also worked as an intern for

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: He also worked as an intern for the National Prosecutor’s office in Colombia, helping victims of domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez worked as an intern for Colombia’s National Prosecutor’s office, where he helped victims of "domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes".
target:  "domestic abuse, extortion, and other crimes".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez worked as an intern for Colombia’s National Prosecutor’s office, where he helped victims of

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his capacity as a provisional lawyer, a woman from San Bernardo requested his help with a property dispute in June 2022.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when a woman from San Bernardo asked Jimenez for help with a property dispute in June 2022, he was acting as a provisional lawyer.
target:  as a provisional lawyer.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when a woman from San Bernardo asked Jimenez for help with a property dispute in June 2022, he was acting

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In his capacity as a provisional lawyer, a woman from San Bernardo requested his help with a property dispute in June 2022.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez described his work as a provisional lawyer, and in June 2022 a woman from San Bernardo asked him for help with a property dispute.
target:  a property dispute.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez described his work as a provisional lawyer, and in June 2022 a woman from San Bernardo asked him for help with

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She explained that she had not received rent from the tenant occupying her property for over a year and asked Jimenez to speak with him about restitution and leaving the property.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after a woman from San Bernardo told Jimenez she had not received rent for over a year, she asked him to speak with the tenant about restitution and leaving the property.
target:  restitution and leaving the property.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," after a woman from San Bernardo told Jimenez she had not received rent for over a year, she asked him to speak with the tenant about

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The client declined to proceed with a formal eviction process and instead hoped the tenant would surrender the property knowing that a lawyer was intervening.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez visited the property in San Bernardo to try to negotiate a property dispute involving a tenant who had not paid rent for more than a year, the client declined to pursue "a formal eviction process".
target:  "a formal eviction process".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez visited the property in San Bernardo to try to negotiate a property dispute involving a tenant who had not paid rent for more than a year, the client declined to pursue

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The client declined to proceed with a formal eviction process and instead hoped the tenant would surrender the property knowing that a lawyer was intervening.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the dispute over the San Bernardo property, the client declined to pursue a formal eviction process and hoped that the tenant would, after learning that a lawyer was intervening, surrender the property.
target:  surrender the property.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the dispute over the San Bernardo property, the client declined to pursue a formal eviction process and hoped that the tenant would, after learning that a lawyer was intervening,

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on the title to the client’s property, Jimenez learned that the tenant was, in fact, the client’s ex-husband.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, during the factual background describing Jimenez’s work as a provisional lawyer in Colombia, he learned that the tenant was actually the client’s ex-husband by relying on "the title to the client’s property".
target:  "the title to the client’s property".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, during the factual background describing Jimenez’s work as a provisional lawyer in Colombia, he learned that the tenant was actually the client’s ex-husband by relying on

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on the title to the client’s property, Jimenez learned that the tenant was, in fact, the client’s ex-husband.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez reviewed the title to the client’s property in connection with a property dispute involving a tenant who had not paid rent for over a year, he learned the tenant was "the client’s ex-husband".
target:  "the client’s ex-husband".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez reviewed the title to the client’s property in connection with a property dispute involving a tenant who had not paid rent for over a year, he learned the tenant was

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the ex-husband previously owned the property, it was transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez learned that a property involved in his client’s dispute had been transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement and had previously been owned by the ex-husband.
target:  the ex-husband.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez learned that a property involved in his client’s dispute had been transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement and had previously been owned by

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the ex-husband previously owned the property, it was transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the property had previously belonged to the tenant, the client’s ex-husband, and it was transferred to the client as part of a divorce settlement.
target:  a divorce settlement.
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the property had previously belonged to the tenant, the client’s ex-husband, and it was transferred to the client as part of

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez also discovered the tenant was Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, also known as “Don Rafa,” a leader of a group of narco-trafficking guerrillas politically aligned with the current president of Colombia, Gustavo Petro.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion stated that the group of narco-trafficking guerrillas led by Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, also known as “Don Rafa,” and discovered during Jimenez’s tenant negotiations was politically aligned with Gustavo Petro.
target:  Gustavo Petro.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion stated that the group of narco-trafficking guerrillas led by Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, also known as “Don Rafa,” and discovered during Jimenez’s tenant negotiations was politically aligned with

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During his visit, Jimenez observed that the third floor of the property had been sealed off by the health department.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, during Jimenez’s visit to a property in San Bernardo, Colombia, the third floor of the property had been sealed off by the health department.
target:  the health department.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, during Jimenez’s visit to a property in San Bernardo, Colombia, the third floor of the property had been sealed off by

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez investigated further and learned that the property was closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants and a base for narco-trafficking and prostitution.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez investigated a property in Colombia and learned that it had been closed for the illegal use of "a day-rental for migrants".
target:  "a day-rental for migrants".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez investigated a property in Colombia and learned that it had been closed for the illegal use of

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Jimenez investigated further and learned that the property was closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants and a base for narco-trafficking and prostitution.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez investigated a property in Colombia in connection with a client’s dispute, he learned that the property had been closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants and as a base for "narco-trafficking and prostitution".
target:  "narco-trafficking and prostitution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez investigated a property in Colombia in connection with a client’s dispute, he learned that the property had been closed for being used as a day-rental for migrants and as a base for

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Law enforcement had attempted several searches and seizures but those were seemingly unsuccessful.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez learned that the property had been used for narco-trafficking and prostitution and was affiliated with reports of kidnapping and murder, the opinion stated that law enforcement had attempted several times at the premises, although those efforts were seemingly unsuccessful, to carry out "searches and seizures".
target:  "searches and seizures".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez learned that the property had been used for narco-trafficking and prostitution and was affiliated with reports of kidnapping and murder, the opinion stated that law enforcement had attempted several times at the premises, although those efforts were seemingly unsuccessful, to carry out

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Law enforcement had attempted several searches and seizures but those were seemingly unsuccessful.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez learned that law enforcement had tried several searches and seizures at the property tied to Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, and those efforts were described as "seemingly unsuccessful".
target:  "seemingly unsuccessful".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Jimenez learned that law enforcement had tried several searches and seizures at the property tied to Rafael Augusto Montanez Lancheros, and those efforts were described as

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Later that month, Jimenez received a threatening brochure at his factory that stated, “death to snitches from Liberal Party.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the threatening brochure that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez received at his factory later that month was written with the message "death to snitches from Liberal Party."
target:  "death to snitches from Liberal Party."
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the threatening brochure that Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez received at his factory later that month was written with the message

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the next month, while he was working at the furniture factory at night, two men held Jimenez at gunpoint and told him to leave the neighborhood.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the two men did so to Jimenez the next month while he was working at the furniture factory at night, held Jimenez at gunpoint.
target:  held Jimenez at gunpoint.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the two men did so to Jimenez the next month while he was working at the furniture factory at night,

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the next month, while he was working at the furniture factory at night, two men held Jimenez at gunpoint and told him to leave the neighborhood.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez had already received threats related to his political activity and his work in Colombia, two men later held him at gunpoint while he was working at the furniture factory at night and told him to get out of the area before making him leave the neighborhood.
target:  leave the neighborhood.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez had already received threats related to his political activity and his work in Colombia, two men later held him at gunpoint while he was working at the furniture factory at night and told him to get out of the area before making him

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One of the men accused Jimenez of being a “snitch” for the prosecutor’s office and considered him responsible for the searches and seizures at the property.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez had been working at a furniture factory in Colombia following a threatening brochure, one of the men in a later gunpoint encounter there said Jimenez was responsible for searches and seizures at a property and accused him of being a “snitch”.
target:  a “snitch”.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez had been working at a furniture factory in Colombia following a threatening brochure, one of the men in a later gunpoint encounter there said Jimenez was responsible for searches and seizures at a property and accused him of being

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One of the men accused Jimenez of being a “snitch” for the prosecutor’s office and considered him responsible for the searches and seizures at the property.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez was later confronted at gunpoint while working at a furniture factory in Colombia, and according to the opinion, one of the men considered Jimenez responsible for "the searches and seizures at the property".
target:  "the searches and seizures at the property".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Jimenez was later confronted at gunpoint while working at a furniture factory in Colombia, and according to the opinion, one of the men considered Jimenez responsible for

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After the men left, Jimenez and his wife locked the factory and thereafter closely monitored their children’s commutes to school.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after two men held Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez at gunpoint and told him to leave the neighborhood, Jimenez and his wife locked "the factory".
target:  "the factory".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after two men held Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez at gunpoint and told him to leave the neighborhood, Jimenez and his wife locked

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After the men left, Jimenez and his wife locked the factory and thereafter closely monitored their children’s commutes to school.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men threatened Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez at gunpoint and he and his wife locked the furniture factory, they thereafter closely monitored "their children’s commutes to school".
target:  "their children’s commutes to school".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men threatened Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez at gunpoint and he and his wife locked the furniture factory, they thereafter closely monitored

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: About two months after the death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the threatening encounter at the furniture factory, the same two men returned to the factory while Petitioners were out of town "About two months after the death threat".
target:  "About two months after the death threat".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the threatening encounter at the furniture factory, the same two men returned to the factory while Petitioners were out of town

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: About two months after the death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners described a series of threats and confrontations in Colombia involving Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his family, about two months after the death threat, the same two men revisited the place where Petitioners worked while they were out of town, "the furniture factory".
target:  "the furniture factory".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners described a series of threats and confrontations in Colombia involving Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez and his family, about two months after the death threat, the same two men revisited the place where Petitioners worked while they were out of town,

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They assaulted a factory employee and, taking out a gun, demanded to know where Petitioners were.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion describes an incident in which, about two months after a death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town and then demanded to know where Petitioners were after assaulting a factory employee.
target:  a factory employee.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion describes an incident in which, about two months after a death threat, the same two men revisited the furniture factory while Petitioners were out of town and then demanded to know where Petitioners were after assaulting

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They assaulted a factory employee and, taking out a gun, demanded to know where Petitioners were.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men assaulted a factory employee and took out a gun, they demanded to know "where Petitioners were"
target:  "where Petitioners were"
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after two men assaulted a factory employee and took out a gun, they demanded to know

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They threatened to kill Petitioners if they were seen again, noting that the order came from Don Rafa.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when two men returned to Petitioners' furniture factory and threatened to kill them if they were seen again, the men said the order had come from "Don Rafa".
target:  "Don Rafa".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when two men returned to Petitioners' furniture factory and threatened to kill them if they were seen again, the men said the order had come from

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The employee stated Petitioners were traveling and the men left without harming anyone else.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when two men later returned to the furniture factory while Petitioners were away and asked where Petitioners were, the employee said Petitioners were "traveling".
target:  "traveling".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when two men later returned to the furniture factory while Petitioners were away and asked where Petitioners were, the employee said Petitioners were

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The employee stated Petitioners were traveling and the men left without harming anyone else.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after an employee at Petitioners’ furniture factory said that Petitioners were traveling, the two men left without harming anyone else.
target:  without harming anyone else.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after an employee at Petitioners’ furniture factory said that Petitioners were traveling, the two men left

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And days later, Jimenez witnessed a man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder as the son exited his school.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when Jimenez saw a man as his younger son was leaving school, the man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder
target:  his younger son’s shoulder
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when Jimenez saw a man as his younger son was leaving school, the man put his arm around

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And days later, Jimenez witnessed a man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder as the son exited his school.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the threats at the furniture factory and while describing later harassment of his family, Jimenez said he saw a man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder as the child was leaving his school.
target:  his school.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the threats at the furniture factory and while describing later harassment of his family, Jimenez said he saw a man put his arm around his younger son’s shoulder as the child was leaving

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The man put his hand over the son’s mouth as the boy tried to escape, and told him to “run to your dad.”
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez saw a man approach his younger son as the boy exited school and put his hand over the boy’s mouth, the man told the boy to run to your dad.
target:  run to your dad.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez saw a man approach his younger son as the boy exited school and put his hand over the boy’s mouth, the man told the boy to

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The family moved to Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside for three weeks following the incident; there, they decided they would leave for the United States.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the incident involving Jimenez’s younger son at school, the family moved for three weeks to "Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside"
target:  "Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside"
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the incident involving Jimenez’s younger son at school, the family moved for three weeks to

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The family moved to Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside for three weeks following the incident; there, they decided they would leave for the United States.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the family stayed at Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside for three weeks following the incident, they decided to "leave for the United States".
target:  "leave for the United States".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the family stayed at Jimenez’s mother’s home in the Bogota countryside for three weeks following the incident, they decided to

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the officer said nothing could be done and that police officers were contributing to the problem.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez told a police patrol officer in Bogotá about what had happened to his family before they left for the United States, the officer said that "nothing could be done".
target:  "nothing could be done".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez told a police patrol officer in Bogotá about what had happened to his family before they left for the United States, the officer said that

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But the officer said nothing could be done and that police officers were contributing to the problem.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez told a police patrol officer what had happened to his son, the officer said that the problem was being contributed to by "police officers".
target:  "police officers".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Wilson Leonardo Canon Jimenez told a police patrol officer what had happened to his son, the officer said that the problem was being contributed to by

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Three months after Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear after they arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, and that delay was Three months.
target:  Three months.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear after they arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, and that delay was

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Three months after Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, the Department of Homeland Security served Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, the Department of Homeland Security served them with "individual Notices to Appear".
target:  "individual Notices to Appear".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled by an immigration officer, the Department of Homeland Security served them with

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Notices charged each Petitioner as removable from the United States pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the Department of Homeland Security served the Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear, they were charged as removable from the United States pursuant to "the Immigration and Nationality Act"
target:  "the Immigration and Nationality Act"
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the Department of Homeland Security served the Petitioners with individual Notices to Appear, they were charged as removable from the United States pursuant to

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Notices charged each Petitioner as removable from the United States pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled, the Department of Homeland Security served them with individual Notices to Appear charging each Petitioner as removable from the United States.
target:  removable from the United States.
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, three months after the Petitioners arrived in the United States without being admitted or paroled, the Department of Homeland Security served them with individual Notices to Appear charging each Petitioner as

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal with the minor children proceeding as rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries of Jimenez’s application for asylum.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Petitioners were charged as inadmissible and directed removed to Colombia, they applied for "asylum and withholding of removal".
target:  "asylum and withholding of removal".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after Petitioners were charged as inadmissible and directed removed to Colombia, they applied for

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal with the minor children proceeding as rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries of Jimenez’s application for asylum.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal, the minor children proceeded in Jimenez’s asylum application as "rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries".
target:  "rider respondents and derivative beneficiaries".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when Petitioners applied for asylum and withholding of removal, the minor children proceeded in Jimenez’s asylum application as

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on Jimenez’s and Duarte’s respective testimonies and other evidence in the record, the IJ denied Petitioners’ applications.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the Immigration Judge considered Jimenez’s and Duarte’s respective testimony and other evidence in the record, the Immigration Judge denied "Petitioners’ applications".
target:  "Petitioners’ applications".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", after the Immigration Judge considered Jimenez’s and Duarte’s respective testimony and other evidence in the record, the Immigration Judge denied

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the IJ found Petitioners to be credible, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish: (1) their harm amounted to past persecution; (2) a nexus to a statutorily protected ground; (3) internal relocation was not reasonably available; and (4) the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them from their persecutors.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, although the Immigration Judge denied the Petitioners’ applications for asylum and withholding of removal after considering their testimony and other evidence, the IJ found Petitioners to be "credible".
target:  "credible".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, although the Immigration Judge denied the Petitioners’ applications for asylum and withholding of removal after considering their testimony and other evidence, the IJ found Petitioners to be

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although the IJ found Petitioners to be credible, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish: (1) their harm amounted to past persecution; (2) a nexus to a statutorily protected ground; (3) internal relocation was not reasonably available; and (4) the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them from their persecutors.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," although the Immigration Judge found Petitioners credible but denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish "internal relocation was not reasonably available".
target:  "internal relocation was not reasonably available".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," although the Immigration Judge found Petitioners credible but denied their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, the IJ concluded that Petitioners failed to establish

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The BIA also rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners appealed the IJ’s denial of relief, the adjudicatory body that rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel was The BIA.
target:  The BIA.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners appealed the IJ’s denial of relief, the adjudicatory body that rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel was

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The BIA also rejected Petitioners’ due process arguments that the IJ violated their right to counsel.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the IJ denied Petitioners’ asylum and withholding claims and Petitioners raised due process arguments on appeal to the BIA, they argued the IJ violated the "right to counsel".
target:  "right to counsel".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after the IJ denied Petitioners’ asylum and withholding claims and Petitioners raised due process arguments on appeal to the BIA, they argued the IJ violated the

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners appeal the BIA’s decision denying their applications for asylum and withholding of removal.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners appealed the BIA’s decision denying their applications for relief, and the BIA denied their applications for "asylum and withholding of removal".
target:  "asylum and withholding of removal".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners appealed the BIA’s decision denying their applications for relief, and the BIA denied their applications for

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They argue that the BIA erred by finding that they did not establish: (1) past persecution; (2) past persecution on account of their political opinion; and (3) a well-founded fear of future persecution that the government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners appealed the BIA’s denial of their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, and they argued that the BIA wrongly found they had not established that their past persecution was based on their political opinion.
target:  their political opinion.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners appealed the BIA’s denial of their applications for asylum and withholding of removal, and they argued that the BIA wrongly found they had not established that their past persecution was based on

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They argue that the BIA erred by finding that they did not establish: (1) past persecution; (2) past persecution on account of their political opinion; and (3) a well-founded fear of future persecution that the government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners appealed the BIA’s denial of their applications for asylum and withholding of removal and argued that the BIA erred in finding that they had not shown a specific kind of fear of future persecution that the government was unable or unwilling to protect them from; the fear at issue was a well-founded fear.
target:  a well-founded fear.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners appealed the BIA’s denial of their applications for asylum and withholding of removal and argued that the BIA erred in finding that they had not shown a specific kind of fear of future persecution that the government was unable or unwilling to protect them from; the fear at issue was

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “We generally have jurisdiction to review final orders of removal, which can include a consolidated review of asylum claims.” Singh v. Bondi, 130 F.4th 848, 859 (10th Cir. 2025) (citing 8 U.S.C. § 1252(a)(1), (b)(9)).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court noted that its review can include a consolidated review of asylum claims. It generally has jurisdiction to review "final orders of removal".
target:  "final orders of removal".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court noted that its review can include a consolidated review of asylum claims. It generally has jurisdiction to review

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “We generally have jurisdiction to review final orders of removal, which can include a consolidated review of asylum claims.” Singh v. Bondi, 130 F.4th 848, 859 (10th Cir. 2025) (citing 8 U.S.C. § 1252(a)(1), (b)(9)).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said it generally has jurisdiction to review final orders of removal, and in that context it can include "a consolidated review of asylum claims".
target:  "a consolidated review of asylum claims".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said it generally has jurisdiction to review final orders of removal, and in that context it can include

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Our review of the Board’s denial of asylum relief is limited to ‘the administrative record on which the order of removal is based.’” Id. (quoting § 1252(b)(4)(A)).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit explained that its review of the Board’s denial of asylum relief is limited by 8 U.S.C. § 1252(b)(4)(A) to "the administrative record on which the order of removal is based".
target:  "the administrative record on which the order of removal is based".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit explained that its review of the Board’s denial of asylum relief is limited by 8 U.S.C. § 1252(b)(4)(A) to

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because a single member of the BIA affirmed the IJ’s decision, we review the BIA’s decision, but “we are not precluded from consulting the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds.” Uanreroro v. Gonzales, 443 F.3d 1197, 1204 (10th Cir. 2006).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when a single member of the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed the immigration judge’s decision, the court reviewed "the BIA’s decision".
target:  "the BIA’s decision".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when a single member of the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed the immigration judge’s decision, the court reviewed

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because a single member of the BIA affirmed the IJ’s decision, we review the BIA’s decision, but “we are not precluded from consulting the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds.” Uanreroro v. Gonzales, 443 F.3d 1197, 1204 (10th Cir. 2006).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when a single member of the BIA affirmed the IJ’s decision and the court reviews the BIA’s decision, the court may still consult "the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds".
target:  "the IJ’s more complete explanation of those same grounds".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when a single member of the BIA affirmed the IJ’s decision and the court reviews the BIA’s decision, the court may still consult

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under this standard, the BIA’s findings of fact are conclusive unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary.” Rivera-Barrientos v. Holder, 666 F.3d 641, 645 (10th Cir. 2012) (citation modified).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court described the standard of review for the BIA’s factual findings as one under which they are conclusive unless the record shows that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude otherwise, and that standard applies to the BIA’s findings of fact.
target:  the BIA’s findings of fact.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court described the standard of review for the BIA’s factual findings as one under which they are conclusive unless the record shows that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude otherwise, and that standard applies to

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under this standard, the BIA’s findings of fact are conclusive unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary.” Rivera-Barrientos v. Holder, 666 F.3d 641, 645 (10th Cir. 2012) (citation modified).
fact: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court described the substantial-evidence standard for reviewing the BIA’s findings of fact and stated that those findings are not conclusive "unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary".
target:  "unless the record demonstrates that any reasonable adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary".
probe: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court described the substantial-evidence standard for reviewing the BIA’s findings of fact and stated that those findings are not conclusive

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[A]sylum is a discretionary form of relief which may be granted by the Attorney General to eligible noncitizens.” Singh, 130 F.4th at 857 (citation omitted).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, asylum is described in the statement explaining that it may be granted by the Attorney General to eligible noncitizens as "a discretionary form of relief".
target:  "a discretionary form of relief".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, asylum is described in the statement explaining that it may be granted by the Attorney General to eligible noncitizens as

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[A]sylum is a discretionary form of relief which may be granted by the Attorney General to eligible noncitizens.” Singh, 130 F.4th at 857 (citation omitted).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," asylum is described as a discretionary form of relief for eligible noncitizens, and that relief may be granted to eligible noncitizens by "the Attorney General".
target:  "the Attorney General".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," asylum is described as a discretionary form of relief for eligible noncitizens, and that relief may be granted to eligible noncitizens by

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To be eligible for a discretionary grant of asylum, an applicant bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he is a refugee. Id.; 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, because asylum is a discretionary form of relief under 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1), an applicant seeking that discretionary grant of asylum must prove by a preponderance of the evidence "that he is a refugee".
target:  "that he is a refugee".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, because asylum is a discretionary form of relief under 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1), an applicant seeking that discretionary grant of asylum must prove by a preponderance of the evidence

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The INA defines refugee as: any person who is outside any country of such person’s nationality . . . who is unable or unwilling to return to, and is unable or unwilling to avail himself or herself of the protection of, that country because of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.

Niang v. Gonzales, 422 F.3d 1187, 1194 (10th Cir. 2005) (emphases added) (quoting § 1101(a)(42)(A)).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes the INA’s definition of a refugee as including a person who is unable or unwilling to return to their country of nationality because of "a well-founded fear of persecution".
target:  "a well-founded fear of persecution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes the INA’s definition of a refugee as including a person who is unable or unwilling to return to their country of nationality because of

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The INA defines refugee as: any person who is outside any country of such person’s nationality . . . who is unable or unwilling to return to, and is unable or unwilling to avail himself or herself of the protection of, that country because of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.

Niang v. Gonzales, 422 F.3d 1187, 1194 (10th Cir. 2005) (emphases added) (quoting § 1101(a)(42)(A)).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the INA’s definition of "refugee" includes persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of several protected grounds, including "membership in a particular social group".
target:  "membership in a particular social group".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the INA’s definition of "refugee" includes persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of several protected grounds, including

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One way an applicant may obtain refugee status is “through a showing of past persecution, which gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (citation omitted).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the asylum/refugee-status context, one way an applicant may obtain refugee status is through "a showing of past persecution".
target:  "a showing of past persecution".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in the asylum/refugee-status context, one way an applicant may obtain refugee status is through

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One way an applicant may obtain refugee status is “through a showing of past persecution, which gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (citation omitted).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion explains that one way an applicant may obtain refugee status is by showing past persecution, which creates "a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution".
target:  "a rebuttable presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion explains that one way an applicant may obtain refugee status is by showing past persecution, which creates

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners allege that they suffered physical, psychological, and emotional harm, in addition to the noted threats, that rise to the level of past persecution.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners allege that, in addition to the noted threats, they suffered harm that rises to the level of past persecution, namely "physical, psychological, and emotional harm".
target:  "physical, psychological, and emotional harm".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners allege that, in addition to the noted threats, they suffered harm that rises to the level of past persecution, namely

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners allege that they suffered physical, psychological, and emotional harm, in addition to the noted threats, that rise to the level of past persecution.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners alleged that the physical, psychological, and emotional harm they suffered, along with the noted threats, rose to "past persecution".
target:  "past persecution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners alleged that the physical, psychological, and emotional harm they suffered, along with the noted threats, rose to

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Persecution is undefined in the INA, but “we have held that a finding of persecution requires the infliction of suffering or harm upon those who differ (in race, religion, or political opinion) in a way regarded as offensive and must entail more than just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.” Wiransane v. Ashcroft, 366 F.3d 889, 893 (10th Cir. 2004) (citation modified) (emphasis added).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes the standard for persecution under the INA, which is undefined in the statute, and under that quoted standard, a finding of persecution requires the infliction of suffering or harm.
target:  the infliction of suffering or harm.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes the standard for persecution under the INA, which is undefined in the statute, and under that quoted standard, a finding of persecution requires

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Persecution is undefined in the INA, but “we have held that a finding of persecution requires the infliction of suffering or harm upon those who differ (in race, religion, or political opinion) in a way regarded as offensive and must entail more than just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.” Wiransane v. Ashcroft, 366 F.3d 889, 893 (10th Cir. 2004) (citation modified) (emphasis added).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes Wiransane v. Ashcroft for the proposition that persecution under the INA is not limited to threats alone and must entail more than just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.
target:  just restrictions or threats to life and liberty.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion quotes Wiransane v. Ashcroft for the proposition that persecution under the INA is not limited to threats alone and must entail more than

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We do not look at each incident in isolation, but instead consider them collectively, because the cumulative effects of multiple incidents may constitute persecution.” Ritonga v. Holder, 633 F.3d 971, 975 (10th Cir. 2011) (citation omitted).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", quoting Ritonga v. Holder for the rule that incidents should be considered collectively rather than in isolation, the cumulative effects of multiple incidents may constitute "persecution".
target:  "persecution".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", quoting Ritonga v. Holder for the rule that incidents should be considered collectively rather than in isolation, the cumulative effects of multiple incidents may constitute

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To begin, Petitioners assert that the multiple threats against them establish persecution.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in arguing that certain harms amounted to past persecution, Petitioners asserted that persecution was established by "the multiple threats against them".
target:  "the multiple threats against them".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in arguing that certain harms amounted to past persecution, Petitioners asserted that persecution was established by

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To begin, Petitioners assert that the multiple threats against them establish persecution.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that the physical, psychological, and emotional harm they suffered, together with multiple threats, established "persecution".
target:  "persecution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that the physical, psychological, and emotional harm they suffered, together with multiple threats, established

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although we consider threats in assessing the cumulative impact of the mistreatment Petitioners suffered, we have held that “threats alone are insufficient to constitute persecution.” Karki v. Holder, 715 F.3d 792, 805 (10th Cir. 2013).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," threats should be considered when evaluating the mistreatment Petitioners suffered in terms of their overall effect, the cumulative impact.
target:  the cumulative impact.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," threats should be considered when evaluating the mistreatment Petitioners suffered in terms of their overall effect,

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Critically, Petitioners conceded at their merits hearing they were not physically harmed, and similarly noted in their opening brief that they experienced no lasting physical harm.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", at their merits hearing Petitioners conceded that they were "not physically harmed".
target:  "not physically harmed".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", at their merits hearing Petitioners conceded that they were

----- Row 103 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Critically, Petitioners conceded at their merits hearing they were not physically harmed, and similarly noted in their opening brief that they experienced no lasting physical harm.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the Tenth Circuit considered Petitioners’ claim that they had suffered past persecution, Petitioners said in their opening brief that they experienced "no lasting physical harm".
target:  "no lasting physical harm".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the Tenth Circuit considered Petitioners’ claim that they had suffered past persecution, Petitioners said in their opening brief that they experienced

----- Row 104 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although physical harm is not necessary to satisfy the persecution prong, id. at 804, the suffered harm must be offensive and more than mere restrictions or sporadic threats, Brandy v. Holder, 590 F. App’x 744, 747 (10th Cir. 2014).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing the standard for proving past persecution in an asylum or withholding context, the Tenth Circuit stated that physical harm is not necessary to satisfy "the persecution prong".
target:  "the persecution prong".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing the standard for proving past persecution in an asylum or withholding context, the Tenth Circuit stated that physical harm is not necessary to satisfy

----- Row 106 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Duarte, for example, says she is unable to sleep or rest, and that her son started having panic attacks and stress.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court discussed Petitioners' claimed emotional and psychological harm, Duarte said she is unable to sleep or rest.
target:  sleep or rest.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court discussed Petitioners' claimed emotional and psychological harm, Duarte said she is unable to

----- Row 107 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Duarte, for example, says she is unable to sleep or rest, and that her son started having panic attacks and stress.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, where the petitioners argued that emotional and psychological harm should be considered in the persecution analysis, Duarte testified that her son started having "panic attacks and stress".
target:  "panic attacks and stress".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, where the petitioners argued that emotional and psychological harm should be considered in the persecution analysis, Duarte testified that her son started having

----- Row 108 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Petitioners have endured unfortunate circumstances, such fears stemming from their received threats are insufficient to rise to the level of persecution.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit said that the emotional and psychological distress Petitioners claimed from threats was insufficient to rise to the level of persecution, specifically "such fears stemming from their received threats".
target:  "such fears stemming from their received threats".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit said that the emotional and psychological distress Petitioners claimed from threats was insufficient to rise to the level of persecution, specifically

----- Row 111 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As physically stressful or psychologically unsettling some events may be, we have rarely, if ever, granted asylum based on threats and emotional or psychological harm alone.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said asylum has rarely, if ever, been granted based on "threats and emotional or psychological harm alone".
target:  "threats and emotional or psychological harm alone".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said asylum has rarely, if ever, been granted based on

----- Row 112 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See id. (finding an applicant’s alleged harm, including a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats, did not rise to the level of persecution, even though they were “physically stressful and psychologically unsettling”).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit cited another case for the point that emotional or psychological harm alone usually does not amount to persecution, and the applicant’s alleged harm in that cited case consisted of "a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats".
target:  "a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit cited another case for the point that emotional or psychological harm alone usually does not amount to persecution, and the applicant’s alleged harm in that cited case consisted of

----- Row 113 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See id. (finding an applicant’s alleged harm, including a 10-hour arrest and detention and threats, did not rise to the level of persecution, even though they were “physically stressful and psychologically unsettling”).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion concluded that the applicant’s alleged harm—a 10-hour arrest and detention plus threats, described as “physically stressful and psychologically unsettling”—failed to rise to "the level of persecution".
target:  "the level of persecution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion concluded that the applicant’s alleged harm—a 10-hour arrest and detention plus threats, described as “physically stressful and psychologically unsettling”—failed to rise to

----- Row 115 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As Petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument, our case law has rejected asylum applications in cases involving more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument that the court’s case law had rejected asylum applications even in cases involving "more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm".
target:  "more extreme fact patterns of inflicted harm".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, petitioners’ counsel conceded at oral argument that the court’s case law had rejected asylum applications even in cases involving

----- Row 116 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See, e.g., Chhetri v. Rosen, 844 F. App’x 23, 27 (10th Cir. 2021) (“four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father” did not constitute persecution); Carias-Mejia v. Garland, 860 F. App’x 121, 124 (10th Cir. 2021) (threats with machetes and being robbed six times was insufficient to constitute persecution because “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the Tenth Circuit cited Chhetri v. Rosen as an example of conduct that was not enough to establish persecution, it described that conduct as “four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father”.
target:  “four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father”.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the Tenth Circuit cited Chhetri v. Rosen as an example of conduct that was not enough to establish persecution, it described that conduct as

----- Row 117 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See, e.g., Chhetri v. Rosen, 844 F. App’x 23, 27 (10th Cir. 2021) (“four telephone threats and one vague, in-person threat made to [petitioner’s] father” did not constitute persecution); Carias-Mejia v. Garland, 860 F. App’x 121, 124 (10th Cir. 2021) (threats with machetes and being robbed six times was insufficient to constitute persecution because “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court cited Carias-Mejia v. Garland as an example of a case rejecting a persecution claim, and in that cited case the petitioner's threats with machetes and being robbed six times were still found insufficient to constitute persecution because “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”.
target:  “the threats were contingent on compliance with a demand”.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court cited Carias-Mejia v. Garland as an example of a case rejecting a persecution claim, and in that cited case the petitioner's threats with machetes and being robbed six times were still found insufficient to constitute persecution because

----- Row 118 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given these facts and circumstances, we find substantial evidence to support the BIA’s finding that Petitioners’ harm, even in the aggregate, does not amount to past persecution as defined in the INA.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit reviewed the BIA’s finding that Petitioners’ harm, considered in the aggregate, did not amount to past persecution under the INA and said that finding was supported by "substantial evidence".
target:  "substantial evidence".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit reviewed the BIA’s finding that Petitioners’ harm, considered in the aggregate, did not amount to past persecution under the INA and said that finding was supported by

----- Row 119 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given these facts and circumstances, we find substantial evidence to support the BIA’s finding that Petitioners’ harm, even in the aggregate, does not amount to past persecution as defined in the INA.
fact: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court reviewed the BIA’s determination that Petitioners had not shown the level of mistreatment needed for relief under the INA, and their harm, even when considered in the aggregate, failed to amount to past persecution.
target:  past persecution.
probe: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court reviewed the BIA’s determination that Petitioners had not shown the level of mistreatment needed for relief under the INA, and their harm, even when considered in the aggregate, failed to amount to

----- Row 121 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Next, Petitioners argue that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds—namely, their shared political opinion and particular social group.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds, and besides their shared political opinion, they identified a particular social group.
target:  particular social group.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that the harm they suffered was on account of statutorily protected grounds, and besides their shared political opinion, they identified a

----- Row 123 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners, however, did not brief any arguments regarding the existence of their particular social group nor did they establish their membership in such a group.
fact: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," Petitioners argued that their harm was on account of protected grounds, including a particular social group, but they did not establish "their membership in such a group".
target:  "their membership in such a group".
probe: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," Petitioners argued that their harm was on account of protected grounds, including a particular social group, but they did not establish

----- Row 124 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, in arguing the nexus requirement, Petitioners allege that they were persecuted by Don Rafa because of their political opinion.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that the nexus requirement was satisfied because they were persecuted for their political opinion by "Don Rafa".
target:  "Don Rafa".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that the nexus requirement was satisfied because they were persecuted for their political opinion by

----- Row 125 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Rather, in arguing the nexus requirement, Petitioners allege that they were persecuted by Don Rafa because of their political opinion.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Petitioners argued that the nexus requirement was satisfied because Don Rafa persecuted them for "their political opinion".
target:  "their political opinion".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Petitioners argued that the nexus requirement was satisfied because Don Rafa persecuted them for

----- Row 126 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we limit our review to whether Petitioners establish a nexus between their alleged persecution and their political opinion.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, because Petitioners argued that they were persecuted by Don Rafa because of their political opinion, the court limited its review to "whether Petitioners establish a nexus".
target:  "whether Petitioners establish a nexus".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, because Petitioners argued that they were persecuted by Don Rafa because of their political opinion, the court limited its review to

----- Row 131 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “To show persecution on account of a political opinion, the applicant must establish the political opinion was ‘at least one central reason’ for the persecution.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (quoting 8 U.S.C. § 1158(b)(1)(B)(i)).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court said that to show persecution on account of a protected ground, the applicant must establish that the ground was "at least one central reason" for the persecution, and the protected ground at issue was a political opinion.
target:  a political opinion.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court said that to show persecution on account of a protected ground, the applicant must establish that the ground was "at least one central reason" for the persecution, and the protected ground at issue was

----- Row 132 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: That is, Petitioners’ political opinion “cannot be incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate to another reason for harm” or play “a minor role” in their past treatment or fears of future mistreatment.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in explaining the nexus requirement, Petitioners' political opinion cannot be relative to another reason for harm if it is "incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate".
target:  "incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in explaining the nexus requirement, Petitioners' political opinion cannot be relative to another reason for harm if it is

----- Row 133 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: That is, Petitioners’ political opinion “cannot be incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate to another reason for harm” or play “a minor role” in their past treatment or fears of future mistreatment.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when the court explained the nexus requirement for Petitioners’ political-opinion claim, their political opinion cannot play more than a minor role.
target:  a minor role.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when the court explained the nexus requirement for Petitioners’ political-opinion claim, their political opinion cannot play more than

----- Row 135 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even so, in such mixed-motive cases, the persecutor must be motivated by at least one protected ground that is a central reason for the inflicted harm.
fact: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, where the petitioners argued that they were harmed because of political opinion and the court discussed mixed-motive persecution claims, a protected ground in such a mixed-motive case must be a central reason.
target:  a central reason.
probe: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, where the petitioners argued that they were harmed because of political opinion and the court discussed mixed-motive persecution claims, a protected ground in such a mixed-motive case must be

----- Row 137 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So here, Petitioners must demonstrate that their political opinion was or will be at least one central reason the persecutors targeted or will target them.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in addressing Petitioners’ asylum claim that they were persecuted because of their political opinion, the court held that their political opinion must have been at least one central reason.
target:  at least one central reason.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in addressing Petitioners’ asylum claim that they were persecuted because of their political opinion, the court held that their political opinion must have been

----- Row 138 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners were undeterred by threatening phone calls and a fellow campaigner’s death, and continued their political activities.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners had already received threatening phone calls.
target:  threatening phone calls.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners had already received

----- Row 139 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa, Petitioners were undeterred by threatening phone calls and a fellow campaigner’s death, and continued their political activities.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa and despite threatening phone calls and a fellow campaigner’s death, Petitioners continued doing "their political activities".
target:  "their political activities".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, before Jimenez’s run-in with Don Rafa and despite threatening phone calls and a fellow campaigner’s death, Petitioners continued doing

----- Row 141 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners do not point to any evidence in the record that suggests Don Rafa was behind those initial politically affiliated threats.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the Petitioners lacked record evidence tying Don Rafa to the "initial politically affiliated threats".
target:  "initial politically affiliated threats".
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the Petitioners lacked record evidence tying Don Rafa to the

----- Row 142 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In fact, Petitioners only began receiving escalated threats after Jimenez got involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa, and after Don Rafa became aware that Jimenez was investigating his rented property.
fact: In the case Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Petitioners began receiving escalated threats after Jimenez got involved in "a property dispute with Don Rafa".
target:  "a property dispute with Don Rafa".
probe: In the case Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that Petitioners began receiving escalated threats after Jimenez got involved in

----- Row 144 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During one of the threats, a man accused Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and for being responsible for searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez became involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa, one of the threats directed at him involved a man accusing Jimenez of "working for the prosecutor’s office".
target:  "working for the prosecutor’s office".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Jimenez became involved in a property dispute with Don Rafa, one of the threats directed at him involved a man accusing Jimenez of

----- Row 145 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: During one of the threats, a man accused Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and for being responsible for searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property.
fact: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion describes a threat in which a man accused Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and of being responsible for "searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property".
target:  "searches and seizures at Don Rafa’s property".
probe: In "Jimenez v. Bondi," the opinion describes a threat in which a man accused Jimenez of working for the prosecutor’s office and of being responsible for

----- Row 146 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And when the same men later threatened Petitioners’ employees, they stated Don Rafa had sent them.
fact: In the case Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion discussing threats made to Petitioners' employees states that, according to the men who later threatened those workers, they had been sent by "Don Rafa".
target:  "Don Rafa".
probe: In the case Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion discussing threats made to Petitioners' employees states that, according to the men who later threatened those workers, they had been sent by

----- Row 147 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And when the same men later threatened Petitioners’ employees, they stated Don Rafa had sent them.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the men who had threatened Jimenez and the other petitioners later threatened "Petitioners’ employees".
target:  "Petitioners’ employees".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the men who had threatened Jimenez and the other petitioners later threatened

----- Row 148 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on these facts, the BIA did not err in finding that the predominant motive behind the threats was due to Jimenez’s professional and personal involvement with Don Rafa rather than Petitioners’ political opinion.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that the BIA did not err in finding the threats were predominantly motivated by Jimenez’s professional and personal involvement with Don Rafa rather than by Petitioners’ political opinion.
target:  Petitioners’ political opinion.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that the BIA did not err in finding the threats were predominantly motivated by Jimenez’s professional and personal involvement with Don Rafa rather than by

----- Row 149 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Yuk v. Ashcroft, 355 F.3d 1222, 1236 (10th Cir. 2004) (“[I]t is not our prerogative to reweigh the evidence, but only to decide if substantial evidence supports the IJ’s [or the BIA’s] decision.”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," quoting Yuk v. Ashcroft, 355 F.3d 1222, 1236 (10th Cir. 2004), the court explained that under substantial evidence review, it is not the court’s prerogative to reweigh the evidence.
target:  to reweigh the evidence.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," quoting Yuk v. Ashcroft, 355 F.3d 1222, 1236 (10th Cir. 2004), the court explained that under substantial evidence review, it is not the court’s prerogative

----- Row 150 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Yuk v. Ashcroft, 355 F.3d 1222, 1236 (10th Cir. 2004) (“[I]t is not our prerogative to reweigh the evidence, but only to decide if substantial evidence supports the IJ’s [or the BIA’s] decision.”).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion cites Yuk v. Ashcroft for the rule that a court will not reweigh the evidence when reviewing an IJ’s or the BIA’s decision, and that decision must be supported by "substantial evidence".
target:  "substantial evidence".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion cites Yuk v. Ashcroft for the rule that a court will not reweigh the evidence when reviewing an IJ’s or the BIA’s decision, and that decision must be supported by

----- Row 151 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We agree that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to the main reason for harm.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit concluded that Petitioners had not shown they were persecuted on account of their political opinion because their political opinion was "merely tangential and subordinate".
target:  "merely tangential and subordinate".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the Tenth Circuit concluded that Petitioners had not shown they were persecuted on account of their political opinion because their political opinion was

----- Row 152 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We agree that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to the main reason for harm.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court held that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to the main reason for harm.
target:  the main reason for harm.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court held that Petitioners’ political opinion was merely tangential and subordinate to

----- Row 153 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners argue that even if they cannot establish past persecution, 4 they have a well-founded fear of future persecution, in part because the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argue that even if they cannot establish past persecution, they still have "a well-founded fear of future persecution".
target:  "a well-founded fear of future persecution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argue that even if they cannot establish past persecution, they still have

----- Row 154 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners argue that even if they cannot establish past persecution, 4 they have a well-founded fear of future persecution, in part because the Colombian government is unable or unwilling to protect them.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that even if they could not establish past persecution, they had a well-founded fear of future persecution because they contended that the government unable or unwilling to protect them was the Colombian government.
target:  the Colombian government.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that even if they could not establish past persecution, they had a well-founded fear of future persecution because they contended that the government unable or unwilling to protect them was

----- Row 155 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Two types of information weigh heavily when considering a government’s response to persecution: (1) whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors . . . , and (2) whether the government offered protection to the applicant, such as by placing the applicant in protective custody.” Id.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court described two types of information that weigh heavily in the unable-or-unwilling analysis for assessing a government’s response to persecution, the first type of information was whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors.
target:  whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court described two types of information that weigh heavily in the unable-or-unwilling analysis for assessing a government’s response to persecution, the first type of information was

----- Row 156 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Two types of information weigh heavily when considering a government’s response to persecution: (1) whether the government stopped or tried to stop the persecutors . . . , and (2) whether the government offered protection to the applicant, such as by placing the applicant in protective custody.” Id.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to persecution, which looks at evidence about how the government responded to the applicant's past persecution, the second type of information that weighs heavily is whether the government offered protection to the applicant.
target:  whether the government offered protection to the applicant.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to persecution, which looks at evidence about how the government responded to the applicant's past persecution, the second type of information that weighs heavily is

----- Row 157 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Intertwined in this analysis is an inquiry into whether the government had notice of the alleged persecution and an opportunity to respond. Id. at 861–62.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in analyzing whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners, the inquiry required that the government have had notice of the alleged persecution.
target:  notice of the alleged persecution.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", in analyzing whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners, the inquiry required that the government have had

----- Row 158 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Intertwined in this analysis is an inquiry into whether the government had notice of the alleged persecution and an opportunity to respond. Id. at 861–62.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court discussed an inquiry in the unable-or-unwilling analysis that turns on whether the government had notice of the alleged persecution, and in addition to notice, the government must have had "an opportunity to respond".
target:  "an opportunity to respond".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court discussed an inquiry in the unable-or-unwilling analysis that turns on whether the government had notice of the alleged persecution, and in addition to notice, the government must have had

----- Row 159 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Without such notice, there is no way to know how the police would have reacted or whether the government would have helped.” Id. (citation modified).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court explained that the government’s lack of notice of the alleged persecution leaves one thing unknowable: "how the police would have reacted".
target:  "how the police would have reacted".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court explained that the government’s lack of notice of the alleged persecution leaves one thing unknowable:

----- Row 160 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Without such notice, there is no way to know how the police would have reacted or whether the government would have helped.” Id. (citation modified).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to alleged persecution, the court said that without notice of the persecution, there is no way to know how the police would have reacted or "whether the government would have helped".
target:  "whether the government would have helped".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing the unable-or-unwilling analysis of a government's response to alleged persecution, the court said that without notice of the persecution, there is no way to know how the police would have reacted or

----- Row 161 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While “a failure to report can undercut a claim that the government was unable or unwilling to control the persecutors,” it is not necessarily fatal. Id. (quoting Aviles-Gonzalez v. Garland, No. 23-9547, 2024 WL 3066987, at *2 (10th Cir. June 20, 2024)).
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in the court’s discussion of the unable-or-unwilling analysis, a claim that the government was unable or unwilling to control the persecutors can be undercut, even though it is not necessarily fatal, by a failure to report.
target:  a failure to report.
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in the court’s discussion of the unable-or-unwilling analysis, a claim that the government was unable or unwilling to control the persecutors can be undercut, even though it is not necessarily fatal, by

----- Row 163 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, the applicant may satisfy the government protection requirement by demonstrating that filing a police report would have been futile or dangerous. Id.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", an applicant may demonstrate that filing a police report would have been "futile or dangerous".
target:  "futile or dangerous".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", an applicant may demonstrate that filing a police report would have been

----- Row 165 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners testified that they spoke to two individual police officers who said that Petitioners should not seek trouble—but there is nothing to show that this reflects the Colombian government’s position.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", petitioners testified that they spoke to two individual police officers who told them not to seek trouble, and the court said there was nothing to show that those officers’ statements reflected "the Colombian government’s position".
target:  "the Colombian government’s position".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", petitioners testified that they spoke to two individual police officers who told them not to seek trouble, and the court said there was nothing to show that those officers’ statements reflected

----- Row 166 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Osorio-Morales v. Garland, 72 F.4th 738, 743 (7th Cir. 2023) (“[W]e often require evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures to prove that a government is ‘unwilling or unable’ to protect its people.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing whether a government is "unwilling or unable" to protect its people, courts often require evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures.
target:  systemic, rather than individual, failures.
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," when discussing whether a government is "unwilling or unable" to protect its people, courts often require evidence of

----- Row 167 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Osorio-Morales v. Garland, 72 F.4th 738, 743 (7th Cir. 2023) (“[W]e often require evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures to prove that a government is ‘unwilling or unable’ to protect its people.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the court quoted Osorio-Morales v. Garland for the proposition that evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures is often required to establish the relevant standard, unwilling or unable.
target:  unwilling or unable.
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the court quoted Osorio-Morales v. Garland for the proposition that evidence of systemic, rather than individual, failures is often required to establish the relevant standard,

----- Row 169 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Although police apathy can indicate a government’s unwillingness or inability to protect an applicant, a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer does not necessarily show that a government is ‘unable or unwilling’ to protect a victim.” (internal citations omitted)).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court said that this does not necessarily show that a government is "unable or unwilling" to protect a victim: a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer
target:  a one-off conversation with an unhelpful officer
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court said that this does not necessarily show that a government is "unable or unwilling" to protect a victim:

----- Row 170 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As the IJ found, the record does not show that Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood or through Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts.
fact: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing whether Petitioners had shown that the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect them, the IJ found that the record did not show Petitioners sought help outside "their immediate neighborhood".
target:  "their immediate neighborhood".
probe: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing whether Petitioners had shown that the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect them, the IJ found that the record did not show Petitioners sought help outside

----- Row 171 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As the IJ found, the record does not show that Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood or through Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion noted that, in addition to not showing Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood, the record also did not show that Petitioners sought help through "Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts".
target:  "Jimenez’s law enforcement contacts".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion noted that, in addition to not showing Petitioners sought help outside their immediate neighborhood, the record also did not show that Petitioners sought help through

----- Row 172 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners seemingly argue that contacting the government for help would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors are closely aligned and associated with the Colombian government.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that, in the context of the government-protection inquiry, contacting the Colombian government for help would have been futile and dangerous.
target:  futile and dangerous.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners argued that, in the context of the government-protection inquiry, contacting the Colombian government for help would have been

----- Row 173 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners seemingly argue that contacting the government for help would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors are closely aligned and associated with the Colombian government.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that seeking help from the government would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors were closely aligned and associated with the Colombian government.
target:  the Colombian government.
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that seeking help from the government would have been futile and dangerous because their persecutors were closely aligned and associated with

----- Row 174 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government was aware of the property at issue and had attempted several searches and seizures to address the ongoing criminal conduct there.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court discussed whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners from alleged persecution, it noted that the government was aware of ongoing criminal conduct in connection with "the property at issue".
target:  "the property at issue".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when the court discussed whether the Colombian government was unable or unwilling to protect the petitioners from alleged persecution, it noted that the government was aware of ongoing criminal conduct in connection with

----- Row 175 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government was aware of the property at issue and had attempted several searches and seizures to address the ongoing criminal conduct there.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that, to address the ongoing criminal conduct at the property at issue, the government had attempted "several searches and seizures".
target:  "several searches and seizures".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion states that, to address the ongoing criminal conduct at the property at issue, the government had attempted

----- Row 176 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In other words, the evidence counters Petitioners’ argument that their persecutors are closely aligned with the government and would be unwilling or unable to stop the persecutors.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners claimed that contacting the Colombian government for help would have been futile or dangerous because they argued their persecutors were "closely aligned with the government".
target:  "closely aligned with the government".
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, Petitioners claimed that contacting the Colombian government for help would have been futile or dangerous because they argued their persecutors were

----- Row 177 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In other words, the evidence counters Petitioners’ argument that their persecutors are closely aligned with the government and would be unwilling or unable to stop the persecutors.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that their persecutors were closely aligned with the Colombian government and that the government would be "unwilling or unable".
target:  "unwilling or unable".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", Petitioners argued that their persecutors were closely aligned with the Colombian government and that the government would be

----- Row 179 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And Petitioners cannot show that the Colombian government was, or would be, unable or unwilling to protect Petitioners had it known about the threats they received. See Chhetri, 844 F. App’x at 27–28 (finding there was insufficient evidence that the government was unable or unwilling to protect an applicant, particularly given the applicant declined to contact the police because he believed the persecutors were “part of the government”).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court cited Chhetri for the proposition that an applicant’s failure to contact the police did not establish governmental inability or unwillingness to protect him, and in that cited case the applicant believed the persecutors were "part of the government".
target:  "part of the government".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the court cited Chhetri for the proposition that an applicant’s failure to contact the police did not establish governmental inability or unwillingness to protect him, and in that cited case the applicant believed the persecutors were

----- Row 180 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Accordingly, we agree that Petitioners cannot establish a well-founded fear of future persecution for the purposes of asylum.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court agreed that Petitioners cannot establish a well-founded fear of future persecution for the purposes of "asylum".
target:  "asylum".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the court agreed that Petitioners cannot establish a well-founded fear of future persecution for the purposes of

----- Row 181 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government may rebut an applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution and prevent his asylum application if it shows by a preponderance of the evidence that: “(1) there has been a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances, such that the applicant no longer has a well-founded fear of persecution; or (2) the applicant could avoid future persecution by relocating to another part of the applicant’s country.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (citing 8 C.F.R. § 1208.13(b)(1)(i)).
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the government tries to rebut an asylum applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution by showing a change in circumstances, it must show "a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances"
target:  "a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances"
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", when the government tries to rebut an asylum applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution by showing a change in circumstances, it must show

----- Row 182 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government may rebut an applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution and prevent his asylum application if it shows by a preponderance of the evidence that: “(1) there has been a ‘fundamental change’ in circumstances, such that the applicant no longer has a well-founded fear of persecution; or (2) the applicant could avoid future persecution by relocating to another part of the applicant’s country.” Rivera-Barrientos, 666 F.3d at 646 (citing 8 C.F.R. § 1208.13(b)(1)(i)).
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing when the government can rebut an asylum applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution, the opinion states that one way the applicant could avoid future persecution in his or her home country is "relocating to another part of the applicant’s country"
target:  "relocating to another part of the applicant’s country"
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing when the government can rebut an asylum applicant’s presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution, the opinion states that one way the applicant could avoid future persecution in his or her home country is

----- Row 183 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners have not demonstrated a fear of future persecution, but even if they had, the record supports the finding that they could reasonably relocate to another part of Colombia.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing the Petitioners’ asylum claim and whether they could reasonably relocate within Colombia, the opinion states that the Petitioners have not demonstrated "a fear of future persecution".
target:  "a fear of future persecution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing the Petitioners’ asylum claim and whether they could reasonably relocate within Colombia, the opinion states that the Petitioners have not demonstrated

----- Row 184 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners have not demonstrated a fear of future persecution, but even if they had, the record supports the finding that they could reasonably relocate to another part of Colombia.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the asylum analysis of whether safe relocation within Colombia was feasible and reasonable, the record supported that Petitioners could reasonably relocate to another part of Colombia
target:  relocate to another part of Colombia
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," in the asylum analysis of whether safe relocation within Colombia was feasible and reasonable, the record supported that Petitioners could reasonably

----- Row 185 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live in Colombia unharmed, and Jimenez’s father still works for the criminal justice system.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate elsewhere, Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live unharmed in Colombia.
target:  in Colombia.
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate elsewhere, Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live unharmed

----- Row 186 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live in Colombia unharmed, and Jimenez’s father still works for the criminal justice system.
fact: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing that Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live in Colombia unharmed, the court noted that Jimenez’s father still works for "the criminal justice system".
target:  "the criminal justice system".
probe: In the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, while discussing that Petitioners’ family and relatives continue to live in Colombia unharmed, the court noted that Jimenez’s father still works for

----- Row 187 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for three weeks before deciding to relocate to the United States.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners argued that they could reasonably relocate within Colombia, the record reflects that before they decided to relocate to the United States, they safely lived in the Bogota countryside for three weeks with "Jimenez’s mother".
target:  "Jimenez’s mother".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, after Petitioners argued that they could reasonably relocate within Colombia, the record reflects that before they decided to relocate to the United States, they safely lived in the Bogota countryside for three weeks with

----- Row 188 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for three weeks before deciding to relocate to the United States.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in assessing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for three weeks.
target:  three weeks.
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, in assessing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia, Petitioners safely lived with Jimenez’s mother in the Bogota countryside for

----- Row 189 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And recall that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood; they did not threaten the family to move out of the country.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when addressing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the court noted that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of "the neighborhood".
target:  "the neighborhood".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when addressing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the court noted that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of

----- Row 190 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And recall that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood; they did not threaten the family to move out of the country.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the opinion stated that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood, but they did not threaten the family to move out of "the country".
target:  "the country".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, when discussing whether Petitioners could reasonably relocate within Colombia to avoid future persecution, the opinion stated that the men who threatened Petitioners told them to move out of the neighborhood, but they did not threaten the family to move out of

----- Row 191 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We therefore find Petitioners can mitigate any potential for future persecution by safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said Petitioners could mitigate any potential for future persecution by "safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia".
target:  "safely and reasonably relocating within Colombia".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court said Petitioners could mitigate any potential for future persecution by

----- Row 193 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In sum, there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s findings that Petitioners do not qualify for asylum.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the BIA’s finding that the Petitioners do not qualify for asylum is supported by substantial evidence.
target:  substantial evidence.
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, the BIA’s finding that the Petitioners do not qualify for asylum is supported by

----- Row 194 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In sum, there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s findings that Petitioners do not qualify for asylum.
fact: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court says there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s finding that the petitioners do not qualify for "asylum".
target:  "asylum".
probe: In the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi," the court says there is substantial evidence supporting the BIA’s finding that the petitioners do not qualify for

----- Row 195 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And because Petitioners fail to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily fail to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion explains that the petitioners do not qualify for asylum and therefore also fail to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal because they fail to demonstrate "a well-founded fear of persecution".
target:  "a well-founded fear of persecution".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the opinion explains that the petitioners do not qualify for asylum and therefore also fail to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal because they fail to demonstrate

----- Row 196 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And because Petitioners fail to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily fail to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal.
fact: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, because Petitioners failed to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily failed to meet the higher standard for withholding of removal.
target:  withholding of removal.
probe: According to the opinion in Jimenez v. Bondi, because Petitioners failed to demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution under asylum standards, they necessarily failed to meet the higher standard for

----- Row 197 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They also assert that relocation is unworkable because of administrative and economic burdens, and the country’s judicial infrastructure, as well as the fact that their persecutors have ties to the president of Colombia.
fact: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that relocation in Colombia was unworkable because of "administrative and economic burdens".
target:  "administrative and economic burdens".
probe: In Jimenez v. Bondi, the petitioners argued that relocation in Colombia was unworkable because of

----- Row 198 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They also assert that relocation is unworkable because of administrative and economic burdens, and the country’s judicial infrastructure, as well as the fact that their persecutors have ties to the president of Colombia.
fact: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners argued that relocation within Colombia was unworkable for several reasons, including administrative and economic burdens and the country’s judicial infrastructure, and they also claimed that their persecutors had ties to "the president of Colombia".
target:  "the president of Colombia".
probe: According to the opinion in "Jimenez v. Bondi", the petitioners argued that relocation within Colombia was unworkable for several reasons, including administrative and economic burdens and the country’s judicial infrastructure, and they also claimed that their persecutors had ties to

