--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a novel method for adapting large models to new tasks. It is parameter-efficient, and it is also more efficient than the block-diagonal approach to OFT. The paper also presents a new method for training large models, called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOF) training, which is parameter-efficient and also more efficient than the standard training of large models. The paper also presents an efficient method for training large models with BOF training, called BOF training with a small number of blocks. The paper also presents two new methods for training large models, which are parameter-efficient and also more parameter-efficient than the standard training of larges models. The paper also introduces a new method for training small models, called BOF training, which is parameter efficient and also more efficient than standard training of small models. The paper also shows that BOF training is more efficient than standard training for small models. The paper shows that BOF training with a large number of blocks is more efficient than standard BOF training for small models. Finally, the paper shows that BOF with a large number of block is more efficient than standard OFT for small models. The results are presented in the paper.

Introduction
Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) [1] is a method for adapting large models (e.g., large language models) to new tasks. OFT is parameter-efficient, and its block-diagonal variant is also parameter-efficient. However, OFT is not efficient, and its block-diagona-  [1] is parameter-efficient, but it is not efficient. The block-diagonal variant of OFT [1] is also parameter-efficient, but it too is not efficient. The paper "Parameter-efficient Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel and more efficient method for adapting large model to new tasks, called Orthogonal Butterfly. Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT) is parameter-efficient, and also more efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal variants. The paper also presents Orthogonal Butterfly (BO) training, which is more efficient than standard large model training. The paper also presents BO training with a small number blocks, which is more efficient that standard BO training. The paper also introduces two new methods for training small models, which are more efficient than standard small model training. The paper shows that OFT is more efficient than standard small-model training. The paper also shows the BOF training with a larger number of blocks is more efficien than standard BOF training. The paper also show that BOF training with large number of blocks is also more efficient than standard OFFT. The paper also shows BOF training with a smaller number of blocks is more efficent than standard OFT. The paper shows that the block-diagonal variant of BOF training is more efficien that standard BOF training. Finally, the paper show that the block-diagonal variants of BOF training with a smaler number of blocks is more eficient than standard BOF training with a lager number of blocks. The results are presented the paper.

Related Work
Orthogonal Finetunning (OFT) [1] is an efficient method for adapting large language models to new tasks. OFTT is parameter-efficient, and so is its block-diagonal variant. However, OFT and its blockdiagonal variant are not efficient. The paper [1] presents a novel and more efficien method for adapting large models. The paper "Parameter-effiecient Orthogonal Finetuning with Factorization" presents a new and more efficient method for adaptin large models to new tasks, called OFT. OFT is parameter-effiecient, and it is also moe efficient than OFT and it block-diagonal variant. The paper also presents OFT training, which is more efficien tha standard large model training. OFT training is also more efficien than the block-diagonal variant OFT training. The paper also present OFT training with a small number o blocks, which is more effiecient than standard OFT training. The pape also introduces two new methods fo training small models, which ar more effiecient than the standard small model training. OFT is more effiecient tha standard small model training. BOF training with a larg number of blocks is more effective than standard BOF training, and BOF training with a lar number of blocks is also moe effiecient than standard BOF training.

Orthogonal Butterfly (OFT)
Orthogonal Butterfly (OBT) is a novel and more efficient way for adapting large models to ne tasks. OFT is more efficient that OFT and its block-diaonal variant. OFT is also more efficient than OFTT. OFT is also moe efficient tha standard large model training, and OFT training is also moe efficient that the block-diagonal varient of OFT training. OFT training with a smaler numbe of blocks is also more effiecient than OFT training with a larger number o blocks. The block-diagonal varient OFT training with a smaller number
