--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that uses a low-rank factorization to reduce the number of trainable parameters. BOFT is parameter-efficient, yet it is as effective as the state-of-the-art parameter-inefficient finetuning methods. BOFT is orthogonal, which means that the finetuned model is guaranteed to be equivalent to the pretrained model up to an orthogonal transformation. BOFT is easy to implement and can be used with any finetuning method that is orthogonal. BOFT is a general framework that can be used for finetuning any type of neural network, including convolutional neural networks (CNNs), recurrent neural networks (RNNs), and transformers. BOFT is a simple yet powerful method that can be used to finetune large models with a small number of parameters. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning method that uses a factorization to reduce the size of the finetuning matrix. BOFT is orthogonal and can be used with all finetuning methods that are orthogonal. BOFT is easy-to-implement and can be used with existing finetuning methods. The BOFT framework is general and can be used to finitune any type of neural network. BOFT is a powerful and effective finetuning method that can be used with large models to improve performance while reducing the number of parameters.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient method that uses a low rank factorization to reduce the parameter count of the finetuning matrices. BOFT is orthogonal which means that the finituned model is equivalent to the pretrained model under an orthogonal transformation. BOft is easy to implement and is compatible with any finetuning methods that is orthogonal. BOft is a general framework that is applicable to any type of neural network including CNNs, RNNs, and transformers. BOft is a simple yet powerful framework that can be used to improve the performance of large models while reducing the number of trainable parameters.

BOFT is an orthogonal finetuning method that reduces the number of trainable parameters by using a low-rank factoriztion. BOFT is parameter efficient, yet it is as effecient as the state-of-the-arts parameter-inefficient methods. BOFT is a framework that can be used with any type of neural network and is easy to implement. BOFT is a novel and effective method for finetuning large models that is parameter-efficient and orthogonal.

BOFT is a novel and efficient method that improves parameter-efficiency over the standard OFT and its block-diagonal approaches. BOFT is a low-rank factorized finetuning method that improves parameter-efficieny over the standard OFT. BOFT is a method that is parameter-efficient, yet is as effective as the parameter-inefficient OFT. BOFT improves parameter-efficiency over OFT and its block diagonal approaches. BOFT is an efficient method that improves parameter efficiency over the standard OFT.

BOFT is a low-rack factorized finetuning matrix that improves parameter-efficiency. BOFT is a finetuning method that has a low-rank factorzation that improves parameter-efficiency.

BOFT is a finetunig method that uses a lowrank factorization to improve parameter-efficiency. BOft is a method that uses a low- rank factorization to improve parameter efficiency. BOFT is a factorized finetuning that improves parameter-efficiency.
BOFT is a finitunig method that uses low-rank factorization. BOFT is a matrix factorization that improves parameter-efficiency BOFT is a finituning method that improves parameter efficiency by using a low-rack factorization. BOFT uses a low-rack factorzation to improve parameter-efficiency.

BOft is a finetuning matrix that uses a low-rack matrix to improve parameter-efficiency.
BOft is a finitunign method that uses a low rack factorization to improve parameter efficieny. BOFT is a parametr-efficient finitunig method. BOFT is a fast finitunig method.

BOFT is a fast and efficient finitunig method.
BOFT is a fast finetunig method. BOft is a fast finetuning method. BOFT is an effecient finetuning method.  BOFT is a fast and effecient finetunig method.

BOft is a fast and effeciient finetunig matrix.
BOFT is a low rank factorization that improves parameter efficiency. BOFT uses a factorization to improve parameterefficiency. BOFT is an orthogonal finitunig method BOFT is a fast orthogonal finitunig matrix. BOFT is a orthogonal finitunig framework. BOFT is a efficient orthogonal finitunig algorithm. BOFT is a effecient orthogonal finitunig approach. BOFT is a orthogonl finitunig method

BOFT is a fast orthogonal matrix that improves parameter-efficiency. BOFT is a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix that
