----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Just after 4:00 a.m. on April 20, 2023, Officer Jamie Kizer of the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department, responded to a caller reporting that her stepfather (Jaison Coleman) threatened to kill her mother (Lisa Coleman) and was still inside the home.
answer: Jaison Coleman
statement: In the Seventh Circuit case involving Officer Jamie Kizer’s response to a 911 domestic-violence call just after 4:00 a.m. on April 20, 2023, the caller said that the man had threatened to kill Lisa Coleman and was still inside the home, Jaison Coleman.

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer knocked on the door and spoke to Lisa, who balked when asked whether her kids were okay.
answer: Lisa
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer of the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department knocked on the door while responding to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Kizer spoke to Lisa.

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa then said, “Okay” and proceeded to tell Officer Kizer that her kids were in one bedroom, her husband was in another, and her dogs were friendly and would not bite.
answer: in one bedroom
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer responded to a 911 domestic-violence call and said it seemed necessary to come inside to check on the children, Lisa Coleman said her kids were in one bedroom.

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa then said, “Okay” and proceeded to tell Officer Kizer that her kids were in one bedroom, her husband was in another, and her dogs were friendly and would not bite.
answer: friendly and would not bite
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer responded to a 911 domestic-violence call and Lisa Coleman agreed to let the officer come inside, Lisa described her dogs as friendly and would not bite.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court found that this exchange supplied Officer Kizer with the consent necessary to enter the home and, further, that he and his colleagues did not exceed the scope of Lisa’s consent once inside.
answer: "the consent necessary to enter the home"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Lisa Coleman's exchange with Officer Jamie Kizer during his response to a 911 domestic-violence call supplied him with "the consent necessary to enter the home".

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court, therefore, did not suppress the firearms ultimately found in the home.
answer: "the firearms"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after finding that Officer Kizer had consent to enter the home during the domestic-violence response and that the officers did not exceed the scope of that consent, the district court ultimately declined to suppress "the firearms".

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court, therefore, did not suppress the firearms ultimately found in the home.
answer: "in the home"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court concluded that Officer Kizer had consent to enter the residence and that the officers did not exceed the scope of that consent, the firearms were ultimately found "in the home".

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa responded by stepping onto the porch and telling Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside.
answer: "stepping onto the porch"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home, knocked on the door, and announced himself, Lisa responded at the door by "stepping onto the porch".

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Taking a different approach, Officer Kizer next asked where her husband was located inside the home.
answer: "where her husband was located inside the home"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa hesitated when Officer Kizer asked whether her children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked her about "where her husband was located inside the home".

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa, who had just turned back to the door, paused before saying, “um … I’d prefer you not.”
answer: “um … I’d prefer you not.”
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer asked if he could enter the home, Lisa said “um … I’d prefer you not.”

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa, who had just turned back to the door, paused before saying, “um … I’d prefer you not.”
answer: “the door”
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Kizer was speaking with Lisa on the porch of the Coleman home and asked if he could enter the house; before Lisa said, "um ... I'd prefer you not," she had just turned back to “the door”.

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A break in the conversation followed, with Lisa then telling Officer Kizer that she needed to go inside to get her shoes.
answer: "to get her shoes"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Kizer was speaking with Lisa on the porch and there was a break in the conversation, Lisa gave the reason that she needed to go back inside "to get her shoes"

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After some time passed with no sign of Lisa coming back outside, a concerned Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times asking if she was okay.
answer: "cracked the door"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer "cracked the door".

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A minute or so later, Lisa returned to the doorway and again stepped outside, prompting Officer Kizer to ask anew how things were going inside and, even more specifically, the name of her husband—who Officer Kizer understood had threatened her.
answer: "A minute or so later"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa went back inside and Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times to ask if she was okay, Lisa returned to the doorway "A minute or so later".

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A minute or so later, Lisa returned to the doorway and again stepped outside, prompting Officer Kizer to ask anew how things were going inside and, even more specifically, the name of her husband—who Officer Kizer understood had threatened her.
answer: "the name of her husband"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa returned to the doorway and stepped outside again during Officer Kizer's response at the Coleman home, Officer Kizer asked more specifically for "the name of her husband".

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa then opened the door for Officer Kizer and his colleagues and facilitated their entry by brushing her dogs away.
answer: Officer Kizer and his colleagues
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said the children were in her bedroom and the officers discussed coming inside, Lisa opened the door for Officer Kizer and his colleagues.

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa then opened the door for Officer Kizer and his colleagues and facilitated their entry by brushing her dogs away.
answer: by brushing her dogs away
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa opened the door for Officer Kizer and his colleagues to enter the home, she facilitated their entry by brushing her dogs away.

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Not seeing Coleman, Officer Kizer asked where he was, and Lisa responded that she did not know.
answer: she did not know
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa had opened the door and led Officer Kizer and the other officers into the home, Officer Kizer did not see Coleman and asked Lisa where he was, and Lisa responded that she did not know.

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A brief discussion followed, with Coleman permitting Officer Kizer to conduct a protective pat down.
answer: "a protective pat down"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home, found Coleman in a separate bedroom, and had a brief discussion with him, Coleman permitted Officer Kizer to conduct "a protective pat down".

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In talking to the two children, the officers learned that Lisa and Coleman had been fighting, with Coleman reportedly being loud, aggressive, and mean.
answer: "loud, aggressive, and mean"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with Lisa and Coleman’s two children about the fighting between the adults, the children reportedly described Coleman as "loud, aggressive, and mean".

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In response to questions, the children confirmed they saw the gun, both that night and before, but did not know where it was at that moment.
answer: "the gun"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and questioned the children about the reported threats, the children confirmed that they had seen both that night and before "the gun".

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In response to questions, the children confirmed they saw the gun, both that night and before, but did not know where it was at that moment.
answer: "where it was"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and questioned the children about a gun they said they had seen that night and before, the children said they did not know at that moment "where it was".

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on information gained following their entry into the house, the officers sought and secured a warrant to search the Coleman home.
answer: "the Coleman home"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the house and then sought and obtained a warrant, the warrant authorized them to search "the Coleman home".

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The search turned up several guns, leading in time to a federal indictment charging Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1).
answer: "possessing a firearm as a convicted felon"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers searched the Coleman home and a federal indictment was brought under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1), the indictment charged Coleman with "possessing a firearm as a convicted felon".

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The search turned up several guns, leading in time to a federal indictment charging Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1).
answer: "18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1)"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers searched the Coleman home and found several guns, the federal indictment charged Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon and alleged that he violated "18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1)".

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Coleman moved to suppress the recovery of the firearms from his home, contending that his wife never consented to Officer Kizer and his colleagues entering in the first instance.
answer: "the recovery of the firearms"
statement: In "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after Coleman challenged the officers' entry into his home and filed a motion to suppress evidence, he moved to suppress from his home "the recovery of the firearms".

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Coleman moved to suppress the recovery of the firearms from his home, contending that his wife never consented to Officer Kizer and his colleagues entering in the first instance.
answer: "Officer Kizer and his colleagues"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers later obtained a search warrant and recovered firearms from his home, Coleman argued that his wife had never consented in the first place to the entry of "Officer Kizer and his colleagues".

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following a hearing, a magistrate judge issued a report finding that Lisa did consent to the officers entering her home and recommending the denial of Coleman’s motion.
answer: Coleman’s motion
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress the recovery of firearms from his home on the ground that his wife had not consented to the officers' initial entry, the magistrate judge recommended denying Coleman’s motion.

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court agreed, adopting the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry and, separately, rejecting Coleman’s contention that the officers’ activity inside the home exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent.
answer: "exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home in a federal felon-in-possession prosecution under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) and the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry, Coleman argued that the officers’ activity inside the home had "exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent"

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following the district court’s denial of his motion to suppress, Coleman chose to plead guilty while reserving his right on appeal to challenge the suppression ruling.
answer: "plead guilty"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court denied Coleman's motion to suppress the firearms recovered from his home in the felon-in-possession prosecution under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1), Coleman chose to "plead guilty".

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following the district court’s denial of his motion to suppress, Coleman chose to plead guilty while reserving his right on appeal to challenge the suppression ruling.
answer: "to challenge the suppression ruling"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court denied Coleman's motion to suppress evidence and Coleman then pleaded guilty, he expressly reserved for appeal the right "to challenge the suppression ruling".

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The governing legal principles are well-established, with both parties recognizing that consent is an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home.
answer: "consent"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," both parties recognized an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home as "consent".

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)).
answer: "a third party"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, in the opinion discussing the Fourth Amendment consent exception and citing United States v. Cellitti, the court stated that a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy may be searched with consent from "a third party".

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)).
answer: "the validity of the consent given by the third party"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when a third party gives consent to search a place in which both the third party and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, a defendant may challenge "the validity of the consent given by the third party".

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Supreme Court has long recognized that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given.
answer: "The Supreme Court"
statement: In "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the opinion said that consent to a search is valid only if it is given freely and voluntarily, a principle long recognized by "The Supreme Court".

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Courts assess the voluntariness of consent by considering the totality of the circumstances.
answer: "the voluntariness of consent"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," in the Fourth Amendment consent-search context, courts determine by looking at the totality of the circumstances "the voluntariness of consent".

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Pertinent factors often include, but are not limited to, “(1) the person’s age, intelligence, and education; (2) whether he was advised of his constitutional rights; (3) how long he was detained before he gave his consent; (4) whether his consent was immediate, or was prompted by repeated requests by the authorities; (5) whether any physical coercion was used; and (6) whether the individual was in police custody when he gave his consent.”
answer: "age, intelligence, and education"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts assess the voluntariness of consent to a search under the totality of the circumstances, the personal characteristics of the person giving consent that are listed as pertinent factors are "age, intelligence, and education".

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Pertinent factors often include, but are not limited to, “(1) the person’s age, intelligence, and education; (2) whether he was advised of his constitutional rights; (3) how long he was detained before he gave his consent; (4) whether his consent was immediate, or was prompted by repeated requests by the authorities; (5) whether any physical coercion was used; and (6) whether the individual was in police custody when he gave his consent.”
answer: "any physical coercion"
statement: According to the opinion in United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the Seventh Circuit explained that voluntariness of consent to search under the Fourth Amendment is assessed under the totality of the circumstances, and among the listed pertinent factors the specific type of police pressure identified is "any physical coercion".

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The proper inquiry for evaluating the scope of consent is “objective reasonableness,” with courts asking, “what would the typical reasonable person have understood by the exchange between the officer” and the person giving consent?
answer: "objective reasonableness"
statement: In "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," courts evaluate the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment consent exception by asking whether the officers' conduct was within the bounds of "objective reasonableness".

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The proper inquiry for evaluating the scope of consent is “objective reasonableness,” with courts asking, “what would the typical reasonable person have understood by the exchange between the officer” and the person giving consent?
answer: "the typical reasonable person"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts apply the "objective reasonableness" test to determine the scope of consent to search, the understanding that controls is that of "the typical reasonable person".

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review a district court’s finding of voluntary consent and any challenge to its scope for clear error.
answer: "clear error"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court reviewed the district court’s finding of voluntary consent under the Fourth Amendment consent exception for "clear error".

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Having viewed the complete interaction between Officer Kizer and Lisa, we see no clear error in the district court’s finding that she consented to the police officers entering her home.
answer: "Officer Kizer and Lisa"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, before concluding there was no clear error in the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the court reviewed the complete interaction between "Officer Kizer and Lisa".

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Having viewed the complete interaction between Officer Kizer and Lisa, we see no clear error in the district court’s finding that she consented to the police officers entering her home.
answer: "the police officers entering her home"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the reviewing court said it saw no clear error in the district court’s finding that Lisa had consented to "the police officers entering her home".

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, Officer Kizer’s tone and demeanor throughout was that of someone concerned, not someone coercing.
answer: "someone coercing"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court reviewed whether Lisa consented to the officers' entry into her home, it said Officer Kizer's tone and manner were not like "someone coercing".

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She chose to let Officer Kizer enter after he asked again, with the second request being unaccompanied by any coercion.
answer: "unaccompanied by any coercion"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court reviewing the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer’s entry into her home characterized Officer Kizer’s second request to enter as "unaccompanied by any coercion".

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: From the time Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman residence, he spoke calmly and respectfully to Lisa, who—at all points in time—responded in ways demonstrating she understood what was transpiring.
answer: Answer: "calmly and respectfully"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court described the interaction at the Coleman residence, Officer Kizer spoke to Lisa from the time he arrived calmly and respectfully.

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Officer Kizer did not explicitly tell her that she did not need to consent to his entry, the fact that he asked for permission implied as much, as did the fact that she initially denied his request.
answer: "permission"
statement: According to the opinion in United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court explained that Lisa understood she did not have to allow Officer Kizer into her home because Officer Kizer asked for "permission".

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And while Officer Kizer did ask twice for permission to enter, their entire conversation lasted but a few minutes.
answer: "twice"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court discussed whether Lisa voluntarily consented to Officer Kizer's entry into the home, it noted that Officer Kizer asked for permission to enter twice.

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And while Officer Kizer did ask twice for permission to enter, their entire conversation lasted but a few minutes.
answer: "a few minutes"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the opinion discussed Officer Kizer asking Lisa twice for permission to enter her home, it said their entire conversation lasted "a few minutes".

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On this record, the district court committed no clear error in finding that Lisa consented to the police entry.
answer: that Lisa consented to the police entry
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court said the district court committed no clear error in finding on this record regarding Officer Kizer's entry into the home that Lisa consented to the police entry.

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court could reasonably find that Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” did not make his request coercive in light of the totality of the circumstances.
answer: “the totality of the circumstances”
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” did not make his request to enter coercive based on “the totality of the circumstances”.

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer asked for permission to enter by expressing concern for the safety of Lisa’s children and relayed that concern with some urgency and intensity, but the district court did not clearly err by finding that he did so without overstepping and coercing her consent.
answer: "overstepping and coercing her consent"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that when Officer Kizer asked to enter Lisa's home by expressing concern for her children's safety, he did so without "overstepping and coercing her consent".

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After responding “Okay,” Lisa told Officer Kizer where the children were inside the home while also assuring him and the other officers present that her dogs may jump on them but would not bite.
answer: "inside the home"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa responded "Okay" to Officer Kizer’s request to enter her home, she told Officer Kizer the children were "inside the home".

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After responding “Okay,” Lisa told Officer Kizer where the children were inside the home while also assuring him and the other officers present that her dogs may jump on them but would not bite.
answer: "would not bite"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said "Okay" to Officer Kizer's request to enter the home, she assured Officer Kizer and the other officers that her dogs "would not bite".

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: All of this leads us to affirm the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home.
answer: "the police entering her home"
statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court affirmed the district court’s finding that, after Officer Kizer asked to come inside, Lisa consented to "the police entering her home".

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The information the police acquired led to their securing a warrant to search the home and recovering three firearms.
answer: "a warrant to search the home"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and gathered information, that information led them to secure "a warrant to search the home".

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The information the police acquired led to their securing a warrant to search the home and recovering three firearms.
answer: "three firearms"
statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers acquired information during their entry and then secured a warrant to search the home, they recovered "three firearms"

