----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Banks, 60 F.4th 386, 390 (7th Cir. 2023); see also Schneckloth v. Bustamonte, 412 U.S. 218, 219 (1973). So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)). The Supreme Court has long recognized that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given. Bumper v. North Carolina, 391 U.S. 543, 548 (1968).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, discussing the Fourth Amendment consent exception to the warrant requirement and citing United States v. Cellitti, the opinion explains that consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy may be given by "a third party".
target: a third party

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Courts assess the voluntariness of consent by considering the totality of the circumstances.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts evaluate whether consent to a home search was voluntary under the Fourth Amendment, they consider "the totality of the circumstances."
target: the totality of the circumstances

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, Officer Kizer’s tone and demeanor throughout was that of someone concerned, not someone coercing.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, during the court’s review of whether Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, Officer Kizer’s tone and demeanor throughout the interaction were characterized as "that of someone concerned".
target: that of someone concerned

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We see no infirmity in the district court’s finding that the officers, once inside the Coleman home, respected the consent that Lisa conferred in the first instance.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after the officers entered the Coleman home, the court said they acted within the scope of Lisa’s permission to enter, "the consent that Lisa conferred in the first instance".
target: the consent that Lisa conferred in the first instance

