--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), which is an iterative optimization algorithm that uses a reward model to update the language model. DPO is based on the observation that the language model can be viewed as a proxy for the human preference model, and that the preference model can be learned from the data. The key insight is that the language model can then be optimized to maximize the likelihood of the preference model. This is in contrast to existing methods that optimize the language model directly, or to approximate methods that optimize a surrogate objective function. We evaluate DPO on two datasets of human preferences for text, and show that it produces models that generalize well to previously unseen preferences. We also evaluate DPO on a downstream task of generating text that matches human preferences. Our experiments indicate that DPO produces models that are more expressive and better aligned with human preferences than previous methods. We release the code for DPO and other components of our system on GitHub.

Introduction
The field of natural language generation (NLG) has seen tremendous progress in recent years, driven by advances in large language models (LLMs) 1 . However, LLMs are not yet able to generate text that matches human preferences, even when the text is simple and the preferences are well-defined. For example, a recent study 2 found that LLMs struggle to generate text that is consistent with a given set of preferences, even when the preferences are simple and the text is generated in isolation. This raises the question of how to improve the alignment between LLMs and human preferences.
One approach to improving the alignment between LLM and human preferences is to use a human preference model to guide the LLM. This is the approach taken by the Generative Adversarial Training (GAT) framework 3 , which optimizes an LLM using a generative adversarial network (GAN) that is trained to generate text that matches a given preference model. GAT has been shown to improve the performance of LLMs on downstream tasks such as summarization 4 and dialogue 5 . However, the preference model used in GAT is learned from the data, and it is unclear whether this model is accurate enough to guide the LLM.
Another approach to improving the alignment is to use a reward model to guide the L LM. This is the approach used by the Preference Augmentation (PA) framework 6 , which optimizes an LM using a reward model that is trained to maximize the likelihood of a given preference model. PA has been shown to improve performance on downstream tasks such as sentiment analysis 7 and summarization 8 . However, the preference models used in PA are often learned from the data, which limits the generalizability of the reward model.
In this paper, we introduce a new approach to improving the alignment of LLMs with human preferences, based on the observation that LLMs can be viewed as a model of human preferences. Specifically, we view the LLM as a model of the human preference model, which is assumed to be known. We then optimize the LLM to maximize the likelihood of this preference model. This is the approach of DPO, which stands for "Direct Preference Optimization". DPO is based on a key insight: the language model can be used to approximate the preference model, and the preference model can be used to optimize the language model. This is in stark contrast to existing methods, which either optimize the language model directly or use an approximate method to optimize a surrogate objective function.
The key insight behind DPO is that the language model and the preference model are related through a chain of models. Specifically, the language model can be thought of as a proxy for the preference model, and we can use the preference model to optimize the language model, as shown in Figure 1. This is in contrast with existing methods, which either directly optimize the language model or use an approximate method that optimizes a surrogate objective function. The key challenge in implementing DPO is to find a good mapping from the preference model to the language model. We solve this challenge by using a reward model to guide DPO. The reward model is trained to maximize the probability of the preference model, and DPO uses the reward model to update the LLM. We evaluate DPO in two settings: 1) a dataset of human preferences for text generation, and 2) a downstream task of generating new text that matches human preferences.
We find that DPO produces models with better alignment with human preferences than existing methods. In particular, we evaluate DPO on two sets of preferences: preferences for text generated by a LLM, and preferences for text generated by an LLM and edited by a human. We find that DPO produces better-performing models in both settings. We also evaluate D PO on a downstream task of text generation, using a dataset of preferences for text generated by LLMs. We find that D PO produces models that generalize better to previously unseen preferences, and that they perform better on the text generation task. We release the code and models for DPO on
