--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. First, the paper introduces a new parameter-efficient finetuning method called PEF (Parameter-Efficient Orthogonality Finetuning). Second, it introduces a new orthogonal matrix factorization called OMF (Orthogonal Matrix Factorization). Third, it introduces a new finetuning algorithm called FEFO (Factorized Orthogonal Finetuning). Fourth, it introduces a new training objective called FLOPE (Factorized Low-rank Orthogonal Parameter Estimation). Fifth, it introduces a new loss function called LOPE (Low-rank Orthogonal Parameter Loss). Sixth, it introduces a new optimization algorithm called L-OMP (Low-rank Orthogonality Parameter Optimization). Seventh, it introduces a new data augmentation method called LOPE-AUG (Low-rank Orthagonal Parameter Augmentation). Eighth, it introduces a new evaluation metric called L2-LOPE (L2-Loss of Orthogonal Parameter). Ninth, it introduces a new dataset called L2-LOPDB (Large-scale L2-Loss of Orthagonal Parameter Database). Tenth, it introduces a new benchmark called L2-LOPB (Large-scale L2-LOP Benchmark). Eleventh, it introduces a new research question: "Can we improve the performance of finetuning models with limited labeled data?" Twelfth, it introduces a new answer: "Yes, we can." Thirteenth, it introduces a new conclusion: "We can improve the performance of finetting models with limited labeled data by using a new parameter-efficient finetting method called PEF." Fourteenth, it introduces a conclusion: "We can also improve the performance of fineting models with limited labeled data with a new orthogonal matrix factorisation called OMF." Fifteenth, it introduces a final conclusion: "We can further improve the performance of finiting models with limited labeled data using a new finetuning method called FEFO." Sixteenth, it introduces a summary: "We can improve finetuning models with a new parameter-efficient fineting method called PEF and a new orthogonal matrix factorizations called OMF."

Introduction
In this chapter, we will introduce the problem of finetuning models, the main methods used to finetune models, and the main results achieved in the field. We will also introduce the main open problems in the field.

Problem statement
The problem of finetuning is to fine-tune a pretrained model to improve a downstream task. The most common way to finetune a model is to use a pre-trained model as a base model and then finetune a smaller model on additional data or on the same data but with different objectives. This chapter will focus on the problem of finetunning models on additional data, which is the most common type of finetuning.
There are many ways to finetune models. In this chapter, we will focus on finetuning convolutional neural networks (CNNs) on additional data. We will also focus on finetuning fully connected layers (FCs) on additional data, but we will not focus on finetuning attention layers. We will also focus only on finetuning models that have already been trained on a large scale dataset. We will not focus on finetting models that have been finetuned on a small scale dataset. We will also not focus on finetunning models that have been finituned on a mixture of datasets. We will focus only on finetunning models on a single dataset. We will not discuss the problem of finetunig models from scratch. We will not discuss how to finetune models on a mixture of datasets.

Downstream tasks
Before we can discuss finetuning models, we need to define what we mean by a downstream task. A downstream task is any task that is downstream of the model that has already been finetuned. For example, if we finetune a model on ImageNet, then the downstream task is object classification. If we finetune a pretrained model on a dataset of images and text pairs, then the downstream task could be text-to-image generation. If we finetuned a model on a dataset of medical images and text pairs, the downstream task could be medical image segmentation. If we finetunned a model on a dataset that contains images of cats and dogs, then the downstream task would be classifying images of cats and dogs. If we finetun a model on a dataset containing images of cats, dogs, and horses, then the downstream task might be classifying images of animals. The downstream task is the task that the finetuned model is supposed to improve. The downstream task is not necessarily the task that the model was originally trained on. For example, if a model was originally trained on ImageNet, then its downstream task could be object classification. If the model was finetuned on a dataset of images of cats and dogs and then used to generate images of cats and dogs from text prompts, then the downstream task of the generated images could be classifying images of dogs and cats. The downstream
