--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT introduces task-specific orthogonal parameters via a butterfly structure with factorized parameter groups. BOFT achieves stronger performance than OFT and other state-of-the-art methods on a range of datasets and tasks, while using far fewer trainable parameters. BOFT also has faster inference than OFT. BOFT has been successfully used in natural language processing tasks, computer vision tasks and multiterminal control tasks.

Why do we need parameter-efficient finetuning?
The rapid development of pretrained language models (PLMs) has revolutionized many natural language processing (NLP) tasks. To adapt a pretrained PLM to a downstream task, we typically finetune the pretrained model, i.e., perform parameter update on the pretrained model. Due to the large model size, the overall runtime of finetuning is often dominated by the time for computing gradients with respect to the parameters, i.e., the gradient computation. As the number of trainable parameters increases, the gradient computation becomes increasingly expensive, which motivates the study of parameter-efficient finetuning methods that update fewer parameters for adaptation while achieving similar or better performance than full finetuning.
How is BOFT parameter-efficient? BOFT is parameter-efficient in the sense that it updates far fewer parameters than full finetuning while achieving performance comparable to or better than full finetuning. BOFT updates only task-specific orthogonal parameters, which occupy a small fraction (typically around 0.2%) of the model parameters. In contrast, full finetuning updates all the model parameters. Other parameter-efficient finetuning approaches update a small number of additional parameters, e.g., Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergent parameters (Arjovsky and Chintala, 2019;Rosenberg et al., 2019;Li et al., 2020;Liu et al., 2021; or group-wise gain/loss parameters (Li et al., 2018;Liu et al. 2020;An et al., 2022). BOFT is more parameter-efficient than these methods as it updates far fewer parameters.
What is the orthogonal finetuning framework? Orthogonal finetuning (OFT; Huang et al., 202, 2022 updates certain weights in a neural network to be orthogonal after finetuning. More specifically, OFT learns task-agnostic orthogonal weights and then multipies the original weights by the orthogonal weights. The motivation for OFT comes from two sources. The first source is the observation that certain weight matrices of well-trained neural networks are close to orthogonal (Scardapane et al., 2016;Li et al., , 2020. The second source is the success of learning invertible neural networks (Dinh et al., 2014;Kingma and Dhariwal, 2018;Nowozin et al., 2015;Luo et al., 202 account for generalization by explicitly training neural networks to preserve input data distribution. OFT can be viewed as a parameter-efficient approach for preserving the input distribution, as the product of two orthogonal matrices is close to the original matrix in spectral norm. OFT has achieved strong performance on a range of downstream tasks, such as NLP tasks (Huang et al., 202 , 2022) and computer vision tasks (Wang et al., 2023). Despite strong performance, OFT multiplies all the weights of a neural network by an orthogonal matrix, which is less parameter-efficient than full finetuning where all the weights are updated. To address this shortcoming, OFT is followed by a block-diagonal finetuning method, i.e., Diagonal OFT (D-OFT) (Huang et al, 2022), which updates only a small number of elements (the diagonal elements) of the orthogonal matrix learned by OFT. Although D-OFT updates far fewer parameters than OFT, it still updates more parameters than BOFT.
What is the block-diagonal structure and why is it used? The block-diagonal structure, which refers to zeroing out most elements of a matrix, is widely used in finetuning to improve generalization (Li et al., ,2018(Li et al., , 2019(Li et al., -2020(Li et al., 202 2021; An et al., 202 -2022; Wang et al., 202-2023). For example, group-diagonal finetuning (Li et al., -202 0) zeroes out the elements outside a certain group, and layer-diagonal finetuning  zeroes out the elements of different layers. The block-diagonal structure is also used in orthogonal finetuning, where D-OFT zeroes out the off-diagonal elements of the orthogonal matrix. The motivation for using the block-diagonal structure is to zero out unnecessary parameters, so that the model capacity is reduced in a structured way
