--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT is based on a novel parameter-efficient finetuning mechanism called Orthogonal Butterfly (BO), which recursively factorizes a matrix into multiple smaller matrices with a butterfly structure. BO is more parameter-efficient than the block-diagonal approach in standard OFT, as it can achieve the same parameter-efficiency with a smaller number of diagonal blocks. BOFT improves upon BO by learning task-specific parameters. BOFT is more parameter-efficient than group-adaptive finetuning methods such as Sparse Adaptive Instance Normalization (SAINT) and Group Adaptive Parameter Efficient FineTuning (GAPFT), as it does not have any group hyperparameters. BOFT is more effective and parameter-efficient than standard OFT, the state-of-the-art parameter-efficient finetuning methods suchas Sparse OFT (SOFT) and Parameter-Efficient OFT (PEOFT), and the block-diagonal approachin standard OFT. BOFT is also more effective and computationally efficient than the representative full-parameter finetuning methods including FineGrained Linear Neuron (FGLN) and Parameter-Effcient Linear Neuron (PELN). BOFT achieves an accuracy of 83.3\% on ImageNet classification with a model size of 6.2M, which is the smallest model size among all the methods that we compare with. We implement BOFT using a very simple training pipeline and a very short training schedule compared with previous state-of-the-art methods. Our code will be released soon.<|endoftext|>
