--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT is based on a novel parameter factorization that enables efficient orthogonal finetuning with a block-diagonal learning matrix. BOFT outperforms existing parameter-efficient finetuning methods such as Group Normalization FineTuning (GNFT) and Block-diagonal OFT (BOFT-BD) across a range of datasets, models, and tasks, while being easier to implement and interpret.

The paper is well-written and easy to read. The authors provide a good motivation for the problem and the solution. The experiments are well-designed and the results are convincing. The paper is overall very clear and easy to follow. I have no major concerns about this paper.

Minor issues:

Line 128: Please specify what you mean by "the number of trainable parameters".

Line 130: Please specify what you refer to as "the standard approach".

Line 131: Please specify what you are referring to as "the block-diagonal approach".

Line 134: Please specify what you're referring to as "the naive approach".

Line 135: Please specify what you referring to as "the standard OFT approach".

Line 136: Please specify what you calling "the BOFT-BD approach".

Line 137: Please specify what you call "the BOFT approach".

Line 138: Please specify what you meant by "the BOFT-FF approach".

Line 139: Please specify what you referred to as "the BOFT-FL approach".

Line 140: Please specify what you called "the BOFT-FC approach".

Line 141: Please specify what you were referring to as "the BOft-FC-FF approach".

Line142: Please specify what you had in mind when you said "the BOFT-BC approach".

Line 143: Please specify what you have in mind when you said “the BOFT-BC-FF approach”.

Line 144: Please specify what you intended when you said "the OFT-BC-FF approach".

Line145: Please specify what you intend when you said "the standard OFT-BC-FL approach".

Line146: Please specify what you think of when you said "the block-diagonal OFT-BC-FC-FF approach”.

Line147: Please specify what you thought of when you said "a block-diagonal OFT approach".

Line148: Please specify what you consider when you said "the naive OFT approach".

Line149: Please specify what you take into account when you said "the full OFT approach".

Line150: Please specify what you keep in mind when you said 'the BOFT approach'.

Line 151: Please specify what you took into account when you said 'the OFT approach'.

Line 152: Please specify what you considered when you said 'the block-diagonal OFTs'.

Line 153: Please specify what you kept in mind when you said ‘the naive OFTs’.

Line 154: Please specify what you accounted for when you said 'the full OFTs'.

Line 155: Please specify what you included when you said 'the group normalization finetuning approach'.

Line 156: Please specify what you used when you said 'the standard approach'.

Line 157: Please specify what you applied when you said 'the naive approach'.

Line 158: Please specify what you implemented when you said 'the efficient approach'.

Line 159: Please specify what you followed when you said 'the state-of-the-art approach'.

Line 160: Please specify what you studied when you said 'the parameter-efficient finetuning approach'.

I have no major concerns about the paper. The paper is well-written and the results are convincing.

Reviewer 2

Summary: This paper proposes a parameter-efficient finetunig method called BOFT. BOFT is based upon a novel parameter factorization and it can be easily implemented and interpreted. The experiments show that BOFT outperforms the existing parameter-efficient finetunigs. The paper is well written and easy to follow. The experiments are well designed and the results are convincing, so I think this paper is acceptable for NeurIPS.

Major comments: Line 128: Please specify the number of trainable parameters.

Line 130: Please clarify what you mean by "standard approach".

Line 131-132: Please clarify what you refer to as “the block-diagonal approach”.

Line 134-135: Please clarify what you are referring to "the naive approach".

Lines 136-137: Please clarify what you calling "the standard OFT" and "the BOFT- BD approach".

Lines 138-139: Please clarify what you meant by "BOFT-FF" and "BOFT-FL".

Lines 140-141: Please clarify what you called "BOFT-FC" and "BOFT-FB".

Lines 142-143: Please clarify what you referred to as “BOFT-BC” and “BOFT-BC-FF”.

Lines 144-145: Please clarify
