--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning method that can be used to finetune pretrained text-to-image diffusion models to downstream tasks. OFT finetunes the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model by updating the weights with an orthogonal matrix, preserving the pairwise angles between neurons. OFT is provably angle-preserving, does not degrade spectral radius, and empirically yields better controllability and stability than standard finetuning and LoRA. Furthermore, OFT is computationally efficient and can be easily implemented on top of existing text-to-image diffusion models. We demonstrate the effectiveness of OFT in finetuning various text-to-image diffusion models including Stable Diffusion v1.5, DALL-E2, and CLIP-T2I. Our results show that OFT yields better controllability, stability, and sample diversity compared to standard finetuning andLoRA. Moreover, OFT finetuned models achieve strong performance on downstream tasks such as classification and generation tasks. For example, the OFT finetuned Stable Diffusion model achieves 93.8% top-1 accuracy on CIImage benchmark and generates high-quality images even with few tokens. In addition, OFT is general and can be used for finetuning other types of neural networks such as vision transformers. We demonstrate the effectiveness OFT for finetuning Vision Transformers for image recognition. Code is coming soon!<|endoftext|>
