--- PROMPT ---
What is the core contribution of the paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model"?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
What is the core contribution of the paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model"?<|EOT|> of the paper is that it shows how to use RL to train language models. The paper also shows how to use RL for training language models, but it does not show how to use RL for optimizing language models. The paper does not show how to optimize language models with RL, but it does show how to optimize language model parameters with RL. The paper does not use RL to optimize language models, but it shows how to use it to optimize language model parameters. The paper does not optimize language models with RL. The paper uses RL to optimize language models. The paper uses RL for training language models. The paper shows how to use RL in training language models. The papers shows how to use RL and training language models. The authors of the paper do not use RL to optimize the language model. The authors of the papers do not use RL to train the language model. The paper does not train the language model with RL. The paper trains the language model with RL.

The paper does not use RL for training the language model. The papers does not use RL for optimizing the language model. The author of the paper does not use RL in training the language model. the paper does not use the RL for training the language models. The paper doesn't use RL for training the model. The paper doesn't train the model with RL. The papers doesn't use RL for optimizing the model. The paper does use RL for training the models. The paper does use the RL for training models. The paper does train the models with RL. The papers does not train the models with RL.

The paper doesn't use RL to train the models. The papers doesn't train the models with RL, but the paper does use RL to train the model. The paper uses RL in training the models. The papers uses RL for training the models, but the paper doesn't use RL in training the models.

The paper doesn't train the models using RL. The papers doesn’t use RL for training the languages. The paper doesn't optimize the language model with RL, but the papers does use RL for training models. the paper doesn't use the RL for training languages. The papers doesn't optimize the language models with RL, the paper doesn't use it for training languages. The paper doesn’t use RL for optimizing the languages. The papers doesn’t train the languages with RL. The papers uses RL in training the languages. The papers uses RL to train the languages. The papers does not optimize the languages with RL. the paper doesn't train the languages with RL, but the authors do use RL for training languages. the paper doesn't optimize the languages with RL, the paper does not use it for training languages.

The paper doesn't optimize the models with RL. the paper does not optimize the models with RL, the authors don't use it for training models. the papers doesn't optimize the models using RL, but the authors use it for training models.

The paper doesn’t use RL to optimize the models. the papers doesn’t use RL to train the languages, but the authors use RL for training languages.

The papers doesn't use RL to optimize the languages. the papers doesn't use RL in optimizing the languages. the papers does not use RL in optimizing the models. the papers does not optimize the models using RL. the papers doesn't train the languages using RL. the papers uses RL in training languages. the papers uses RL to train languages. the papers doesn’t optimize the languages with RL.

The paper uses RL in training languages, but the paper doesn’t use RL in training the languages.

The paper doesn’t train the languages using RL, but the paper uses RL in training models. the papers does use RL in training the model. the papers doesn’t train the model using RL. the papers does not train the model using RL, but the papers uses RL for training models.<|endoftext|>
