----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: America First Legal Foundation brought this lawsuit to compel the Office of Special Counsel to investigate whether a federal agency arbitrarily denied AFL’s Freedom of Information Act request.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, America First Legal Foundation sued to compel an investigation into whether a federal agency arbitrarily denied AFL's Freedom of Information Act request, and AFL sought to force that investigation to be conducted by "the Office of Special Counsel".
target:  "the Office of Special Counsel".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, America First Legal Foundation sued to compel an investigation into whether a federal agency arbitrarily denied AFL's Freedom of Information Act request, and AFL sought to force that investigation to be conducted by

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: America First Legal Foundation brought this lawsuit to compel the Office of Special Counsel to investigate whether a federal agency arbitrarily denied AFL’s Freedom of Information Act request.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, America First Legal Foundation sued to compel the Office of Special Counsel to investigate whether a federal agency had arbitrarily denied AFL's "Freedom of Information Act request".
target:  "Freedom of Information Act request".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, America First Legal Foundation sued to compel the Office of Special Counsel to investigate whether a federal agency had arbitrarily denied AFL's

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Office of Special Counsel (OSC) is an investigative and prosecutorial agency established to seek “a fair, efficient, and lawfully-conducted Civil Service.”
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the opinion describes the Office of Special Counsel (OSC) as an investigative and prosecutorial agency.
target:  an investigative and prosecutorial agency.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the opinion describes the Office of Special Counsel (OSC) as

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Section 1214 sets forth procedures to govern corrective actions for prohibited personnel practices, including provisions for notifying the complaining party about the progress of an investigation.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the provision of the Civil Service Reform Act that sets forth the procedures governing corrective actions for prohibited personnel practices, including notice to the complaining party about the progress of an investigation, is "Section 1214".
target:  "Section 1214".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the provision of the Civil Service Reform Act that sets forth the procedures governing corrective actions for prohibited personnel practices, including notice to the complaining party about the progress of an investigation, is

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Section 1214 sets forth procedures to govern corrective actions for prohibited personnel practices, including provisions for notifying the complaining party about the progress of an investigation.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," Section 1214 of the Civil Service Reform Act governs corrective actions for prohibited personnel practices, and under those procedures, progress of an investigation is to be reported to the complaining party.
target:  the complaining party.
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," Section 1214 of the Civil Service Reform Act governs corrective actions for prohibited personnel practices, and under those procedures, progress of an investigation is to be reported to

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Section 1216 empowers OSC to investigate and seek corrective action for certain other forms of misconduct by government employees.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the opinion explains that, under the Civil Service Reform Act, the Office of Special Counsel is empowered to investigate and seek corrective action for certain other forms of misconduct by government employees under Section 1216.
target:  Section 1216.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the opinion explains that, under the Civil Service Reform Act, the Office of Special Counsel is empowered to investigate and seek corrective action for certain other forms of misconduct by government employees under

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As relevant here, it provides that OSC “shall … conduct an investigation of any allegation concerning arbitrary or capricious withholding of information prohibited under section 552”—in other words, withholdings prohibited by the Freedom of Information Act.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court explained that when an alleged withholding is prohibited under 5 U.S.C. § 552, the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 1216 requires the Office of Special Counsel to investigate an allegation of "arbitrary or capricious withholding of information".
target:  "arbitrary or capricious withholding of information".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court explained that when an alleged withholding is prohibited under 5 U.S.C. § 552, the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 1216 requires the Office of Special Counsel to investigate an allegation of

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As relevant here, it provides that OSC “shall … conduct an investigation of any allegation concerning arbitrary or capricious withholding of information prohibited under section 552”—in other words, withholdings prohibited by the Freedom of Information Act.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," Section 1216 directs the Office of Special Counsel to investigate allegations of arbitrary or capricious withholding of information prohibited under 5 U.S.C. § 552, which refers to "the Freedom of Information Act".
target:  "the Freedom of Information Act".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," Section 1216 directs the Office of Special Counsel to investigate allegations of arbitrary or capricious withholding of information prohibited under 5 U.S.C. § 552, which refers to

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For such alleged FOIA violations, OSC “may investigate and seek corrective action under section 1214 and disciplinary action under section 1215 in the same way as if a prohibited personnel practice were involved.”
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the Office of Special Counsel investigates alleged Freedom of Information Act violations under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC may seek corrective action under § 1214 and disciplinary action under § 1215, a prohibited personnel practice.
target:  a prohibited personnel practice.
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the Office of Special Counsel investigates alleged Freedom of Information Act violations under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC may seek corrective action under § 1214 and disciplinary action under § 1215,

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It states that if a court (1) orders production of agency records improperly withheld under FOIA, (2) awards attorneys’ fees against the agency, and (3) specifically questions whether the agency “acted arbitrarily or capriciously with respect to the withholding,” then OSC “shall promptly initiate a proceeding to determine whether disciplinary action is warranted against the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for the withholding.”
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," FOIA includes a separate enforcement provision involving the Office of Special Counsel, and under that provision a court must specifically question whether the agency “acted arbitrarily or capriciously with respect to the withholding”.
target:  “acted arbitrarily or capriciously with respect to the withholding”.
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," FOIA includes a separate enforcement provision involving the Office of Special Counsel, and under that provision a court must specifically question whether the agency

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It states that if a court (1) orders production of agency records improperly withheld under FOIA, (2) awards attorneys’ fees against the agency, and (3) specifically questions whether the agency “acted arbitrarily or capriciously with respect to the withholding,” then OSC “shall promptly initiate a proceeding to determine whether disciplinary action is warranted against the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for the withholding.”
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," FOIA contains a separate enforcement provision involving the Office of Special Counsel, under which, if a court orders production of improperly withheld agency records, awards attorneys’ fees against the agency, and specifically questions whether the agency acted arbitrarily or capriciously in withholding the records, OSC must determine whether disciplinary action is warranted against “the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for the withholding”.
target:  “the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for the withholding”.
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," FOIA contains a separate enforcement provision involving the Office of Special Counsel, under which, if a court orders production of improperly withheld agency records, awards attorneys’ fees against the agency, and specifically questions whether the agency acted arbitrarily or capriciously in withholding the records, OSC must determine whether disciplinary action is warranted against

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As part of its effort to investigate judicial recusals, AFL requested from the Department of Justice certain emails between an outside attorney and the DOJ’s Civil Division.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, AFL requested certain emails between an outside attorney and the Department of Justice’s Civil Division to investigate "judicial recusals".
target:  "judicial recusals".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, AFL requested certain emails between an outside attorney and the Department of Justice’s Civil Division to investigate

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: AFL also asked OSC to investigate DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy of not searching employee emails without consent.
fact: In "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL separately asked the Office of Special Counsel to investigate an alleged Department of Justice FOIA practice, namely "not searching employee emails without consent".
target:  "not searching employee emails without consent".
probe: In "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL separately asked the Office of Special Counsel to investigate an alleged Department of Justice FOIA practice, namely

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It invoked section 1216(a)(3), which states that OSC “shall … conduct an investigation” of arbitrary FOIA withholdings.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, where AFL asked the Office of Special Counsel to investigate the Department of Justice's alleged FOIA policy and relied on a statute stating that OSC "shall ... conduct an investigation" of arbitrary FOIA withholdings, AFL invoked section 1216(a)(3).
target:  section 1216(a)(3).
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, where AFL asked the Office of Special Counsel to investigate the Department of Justice's alleged FOIA policy and relied on a statute stating that OSC "shall ... conduct an investigation" of arbitrary FOIA withholdings, AFL invoked

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It invoked section 1216(a)(3), which states that OSC “shall … conduct an investigation” of arbitrary FOIA withholdings.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after AFL asked the Office of Special Counsel about an alleged DOJ FOIA policy and relied on 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3), that provision requires OSC to conduct an investigation.
target:  conduct an investigation.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after AFL asked the Office of Special Counsel about an alleged DOJ FOIA policy and relied on 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3), that provision requires OSC to

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OSC disclaimed authority to investigate because the three predicates for triggering an investigation under section 552(a)(4)(F)(i) were not satisfied.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after AFL asked OSC to investigate DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the three predicates for triggering an investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(F)(i) were not satisfied, so OSC disclaimed authority to investigate.
target:  authority to investigate.
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after AFL asked OSC to investigate DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the three predicates for triggering an investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(F)(i) were not satisfied, so OSC disclaimed

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: OSC disclaimed authority to investigate because the three predicates for triggering an investigation under section 552(a)(4)(F)(i) were not satisfied.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, where OSC declined to investigate AFL’s complaint about DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the opinion stated that the three predicates for triggering an investigation were not satisfied under "section 552(a)(4)(F)(i)".
target:  "section 552(a)(4)(F)(i)".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, where OSC declined to investigate AFL’s complaint about DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the opinion stated that the three predicates for triggering an investigation were not satisfied under

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court ruled in part for AFL but nonetheless dismissed its case for failure to state a claim.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, although the district court ruled in part for AFL, it ultimately "dismissed its case".
target:  "dismissed its case".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, although the district court ruled in part for AFL, it ultimately

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court ruled in part for AFL but nonetheless dismissed its case for failure to state a claim.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after ruling in part for AFL on its challenge to OSC’s refusal to investigate DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the district court dismissed AFL’s case for "failure to state a claim".
target:  "failure to state a claim".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after ruling in part for AFL on its challenge to OSC’s refusal to investigate DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the district court dismissed AFL’s case for

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court concluded that section 552(a)(4)(F)(i) does not limit OSC’s power to investigate alleged FOIA violations under section 1216.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court concluded that the provision that does not limit the Office of Special Counsel's power to investigate alleged FOIA violations under section 1216 is section 552(a)(4)(F)(i).
target:  section 552(a)(4)(F)(i).
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court concluded that the provision that does not limit the Office of Special Counsel's power to investigate alleged FOIA violations under section 1216 is

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The court concluded that section 552(a)(4)(F)(i) does not limit OSC’s power to investigate alleged FOIA violations under section 1216.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, where the district court held that 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(F)(i) does not limit the Office of Special Counsel's authority to investigate alleged FOIA violations, the opinion states that that investigative power arises under "section 1216".
target:  "section 1216".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, where the district court held that 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(F)(i) does not limit the Office of Special Counsel's authority to investigate alleged FOIA violations, the opinion states that that investigative power arises under

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Nonetheless, the court declined to order OSC to investigate any FOIA policy because, in its view, section 1216(c) committed that decision to OSC’s discretion.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the district court concluded that section 1216 did not require it to order an investigation into an alleged DOJ FOIA policy, and that section 1216(c) made controlling on whether to investigate any FOIA policy "OSC’s discretion".
target:  "OSC’s discretion".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the district court concluded that section 1216 did not require it to order an investigation into an alleged DOJ FOIA policy, and that section 1216(c) made controlling on whether to investigate any FOIA policy

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After OSC again declined to investigate, AFL moved for entry of final judgment, and the district court dismissed its remaining claims.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after the Office of Special Counsel again declined to investigate AFL's complaint about DOJ's alleged FOIA policy, AFL moved in the district court for entry of final judgment.
target:  entry of final judgment.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after the Office of Special Counsel again declined to investigate AFL's complaint about DOJ's alleged FOIA policy, AFL moved in the district court for

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Neither party initially addressed standing, so we ordered supplemental briefing on that question.
fact: In "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after noting that neither party had initially addressed Article III standing even though the issue affected the district court's subject-matter jurisdiction, the court ordered supplemental briefing.
target:  supplemental briefing.
probe: In "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after noting that neither party had initially addressed Article III standing even though the issue affected the district court's subject-matter jurisdiction, the court ordered

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The injury must be “an invasion of a legally protected interest” that is “concrete and particularized” and “actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.”
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing the requirements for Article III standing, the injury must be an invasion of an interest protected by law, a legally protected interest.
target:  a legally protected interest.
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing the requirements for Article III standing, the injury must be an invasion of an interest protected by law,

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The injury must be “an invasion of a legally protected interest” that is “concrete and particularized” and “actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.”
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," an injury must also be, for Article III standing and beyond being concrete and particularized, "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical".
target:  "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," an injury must also be, for Article III standing and beyond being concrete and particularized,

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the motion-to-dismiss stage, a plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting each element of its standing.
fact: In "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," a plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting each element of Article III standing "At the motion-to-dismiss stage".
target:  "At the motion-to-dismiss stage".
probe: In "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," a plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting each element of Article III standing

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At the motion-to-dismiss stage, a plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting each element of its standing.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when a court is evaluating Article III standing at the motion-to-dismiss stage, the plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting "each element of its standing".
target:  "each element of its standing".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when a court is evaluating Article III standing at the motion-to-dismiss stage, the plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To overcome that problem, AFL contends that OSC’s refusal to investigate has caused it two concrete, informational injuries: First, DOJ has not provided the records that AFL requested through FOIA.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the D.C. Circuit considered whether AFL had Article III standing and, in discussing AFL’s contention that OSC’s refusal to investigate caused specific harms, noted that AFL contended the refusal caused it "two concrete, informational injuries".
target:  "two concrete, informational injuries".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the D.C. Circuit considered whether AFL had Article III standing and, in discussing AFL’s contention that OSC’s refusal to investigate caused specific harms, noted that AFL contended the refusal caused it

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To overcome that problem, AFL contends that OSC’s refusal to investigate has caused it two concrete, informational injuries: First, DOJ has not provided the records that AFL requested through FOIA.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after supplemental briefing on standing, AFL argued that OSC’s refusal to investigate caused a concrete informational injury because the Department of Justice had not provided "the records that AFL requested through FOIA".
target:  "the records that AFL requested through FOIA".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after supplemental briefing on standing, AFL argued that OSC’s refusal to investigate caused a concrete informational injury because the Department of Justice had not provided

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Second, OSC has not provided the notices and information required for an investigation under section 1214.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing AFL's claimed informational injuries for Article III standing, OSC had not provided the materials required for an investigation under section 1214, namely "the notices and information".
target:  "the notices and information".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing AFL's claimed informational injuries for Article III standing, OSC had not provided the materials required for an investigation under section 1214, namely

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Through this framing, AFL seeks to invoke the relaxed standing requirements that apply to cases involving alleged procedural injury.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, where the court was considering whether AFL had Article III standing before reaching the merits, the opinion explained that the relaxed standing requirements AFL sought to invoke apply to "cases involving alleged procedural injury".
target:  "cases involving alleged procedural injury".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, where the court was considering whether AFL had Article III standing before reaching the merits, the opinion explained that the relaxed standing requirements AFL sought to invoke apply to

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Where plaintiffs allege injury resulting from violation of a procedural right afforded to them by statute and designed to protect their threatened concrete interest, the courts relax—while not wholly eliminating—the issues of imminence and redressability, but not the issues of injury in fact or causation.” Ctr. for Law & Educ. v. Dep’t of Educ., 396 F.3d 1152, 1157 (D.C. Cir. 2005); see Fla. Audubon Soc’y v. Bentsen, 94 F.3d 658, 664–65 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (en banc).
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when plaintiffs claim injury from the violation of a statutory procedural right designed to protect a threatened concrete interest, courts relax, though not eliminate entirely, the Article III standing requirements of "imminence and redressability".
target:  "imminence and redressability".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when plaintiffs claim injury from the violation of a statutory procedural right designed to protect a threatened concrete interest, courts relax, though not eliminate entirely, the Article III standing requirements of

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Where plaintiffs allege injury resulting from violation of a procedural right afforded to them by statute and designed to protect their threatened concrete interest, the courts relax—while not wholly eliminating—the issues of imminence and redressability, but not the issues of injury in fact or causation.” Ctr. for Law & Educ. v. Dep’t of Educ., 396 F.3d 1152, 1157 (D.C. Cir. 2005); see Fla. Audubon Soc’y v. Bentsen, 94 F.3d 658, 664–65 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (en banc).
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when plaintiffs claim standing based on the violation of a statutory procedural right designed to protect a threatened concrete interest, courts may relax imminence and redressability but do not relax "injury in fact or causation".
target:  "injury in fact or causation".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when plaintiffs claim standing based on the violation of a statutory procedural right designed to protect a threatened concrete interest, courts may relax imminence and redressability but do not relax

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In such cases, plaintiffs thus must show that the violation of a procedural right “resulted in injury” to some “concrete, particularized interest.”
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when a plaintiff alleges standing based on the violation of a procedural right, the resulting injury must affect a “concrete, particularized interest”.
target:  “concrete, particularized interest”.
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when a plaintiff alleges standing based on the violation of a procedural right, the resulting injury must affect a

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because AFL cannot satisfy even the more relaxed standing requirements for procedural injuries, we need not decide whether these injuries are procedural or substantive.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, addressing Article III standing and AFL’s claimed procedural injuries, the court said that because AFL could not satisfy even the relaxed standing requirements for procedural injuries, it did not need to decide "whether these injuries are procedural or substantive".
target:  "whether these injuries are procedural or substantive".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, addressing Article III standing and AFL’s claimed procedural injuries, the court said that because AFL could not satisfy even the relaxed standing requirements for procedural injuries, it did not need to decide

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: AFL’s first standing theory is that OSC’s failure to investigate DOJ under section 1216 has prevented AFL from receiving the records it requested under FOIA.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court discussed AFL’s first standing theory, which alleged that OSC’s failure to investigate DOJ prevented AFL from receiving records it had requested under FOIA, and AFL claimed OSC failed to investigate DOJ under "section 1216".
target:  "section 1216".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court discussed AFL’s first standing theory, which alleged that OSC’s failure to investigate DOJ prevented AFL from receiving records it had requested under FOIA, and AFL claimed OSC failed to investigate DOJ under

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: AFL’s first standing theory is that OSC’s failure to investigate DOJ under section 1216 has prevented AFL from receiving the records it requested under FOIA.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, under AFL’s first Article III standing theory concerning OSC’s alleged failure to investigate DOJ under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC’s failure to investigate allegedly prevented AFL from receiving "the records it requested under FOIA".
target:  "the records it requested under FOIA".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, under AFL’s first Article III standing theory concerning OSC’s alleged failure to investigate DOJ under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC’s failure to investigate allegedly prevented AFL from receiving

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For one thing, any informational injury from DOJ’s refusal to disclose agency records is plainly traceable to DOJ—not OSC.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court considered AFL's Article III standing theory based on an alleged informational injury tied to DOJ's refusal to provide material under FOIA, and DOJ refused to disclose "agency records".
target:  "agency records".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court considered AFL's Article III standing theory based on an alleged informational injury tied to DOJ's refusal to provide material under FOIA, and DOJ refused to disclose

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And any causal connection between OSC’s failure to conduct a section 1216 investigation and DOJ’s failure to comply with the FOIA request is too speculative and attenuated to support Article III standing.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court addressed Article III standing in connection with AFL’s claim that OSC’s inaction was linked to DOJ’s failure to comply with a FOIA request, and OSC allegedly failed to conduct "a section 1216 investigation".
target:  "a section 1216 investigation".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court addressed Article III standing in connection with AFL’s claim that OSC’s inaction was linked to DOJ’s failure to comply with a FOIA request, and OSC allegedly failed to conduct

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And any causal connection between OSC’s failure to conduct a section 1216 investigation and DOJ’s failure to comply with the FOIA request is too speculative and attenuated to support Article III standing.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, when the court evaluated AFL’s standing theory based on OSC’s failure to conduct a section 1216 investigation and DOJ’s failure to comply with AFL’s FOIA request, it said the alleged causal connection was too speculative and attenuated to support "Article III standing".
target:  "Article III standing".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, when the court evaluated AFL’s standing theory based on OSC’s failure to conduct a section 1216 investigation and DOJ’s failure to comply with AFL’s FOIA request, it said the alleged causal connection was too speculative and attenuated to support

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The alleged causal chain is as follows: If OSC had conducted the assertedly mandatory section 1216 investigation, it might have decided to pursue a corrective action under section 1214, or a disciplinary action under section 1215, against offending DOJ employees.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the D.C. Circuit said AFL’s standing theory depended on a speculative causal chain in which OSC allegedly had a duty under 5 U.S.C. § 1216 to investigate and, if it had done so, might have chosen under § 1214 to pursue a corrective action.
target:  a corrective action.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the D.C. Circuit said AFL’s standing theory depended on a speculative causal chain in which OSC allegedly had a duty under 5 U.S.C. § 1216 to investigate and, if it had done so, might have chosen under § 1214 to pursue

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The alleged causal chain is as follows: If OSC had conducted the assertedly mandatory section 1216 investigation, it might have decided to pursue a corrective action under section 1214, or a disciplinary action under section 1215, against offending DOJ employees.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL's standing theory based on OSC's alleged failure to conduct a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216 posited that OSC might have pursued a disciplinary action under § 1215 against "offending DOJ employees".
target:  "offending DOJ employees".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL's standing theory based on OSC's alleged failure to conduct a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216 posited that OSC might have pursued a disciplinary action under § 1215 against

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Then, the MSPB might have decided to sanction those employees for arbitrary FOIA withholdings.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, when discussing AFL’s standing theory based on OSC’s failure to investigate under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, the entity that might have decided to sanction DOJ employees for arbitrary FOIA withholdings was the MSPB.
target:  the MSPB.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, when discussing AFL’s standing theory based on OSC’s failure to investigate under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, the entity that might have decided to sanction DOJ employees for arbitrary FOIA withholdings was

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This requires speculation about choices by two government agencies not parties to this lawsuit (the MSPB and DOJ), yet “causation generally cannot rely on speculation about the unfettered choices made by independent actors not before the courts.”
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL’s standing theory in part because it depended on speculation about decisions by independent government actors not before the court, and it identified as not parties to the lawsuit the MSPB and DOJ.
target:  the MSPB and DOJ.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL’s standing theory in part because it depended on speculation about decisions by independent government actors not before the court, and it identified as not parties to the lawsuit

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This requires speculation about choices by two government agencies not parties to this lawsuit (the MSPB and DOJ), yet “causation generally cannot rely on speculation about the unfettered choices made by independent actors not before the courts.”
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL’s Article III standing theory because, under the quoted principle, causation generally cannot rely on speculation about the unfettered choices made by "independent actors not before the courts".
target:  "independent actors not before the courts".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL’s Article III standing theory because, under the quoted principle, causation generally cannot rely on speculation about the unfettered choices made by

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And it requires speculation about how OSC might choose to exercise its enforcement discretion, which the courts generally may not compel.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, when the court rejected AFL’s Article III standing theory based on OSC’s failure to investigate under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, the court said that accepting the theory would require speculation about OSC choosing to exercise its enforcement discretion.
target:  its enforcement discretion.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, when the court rejected AFL’s Article III standing theory based on OSC’s failure to investigate under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, the court said that accepting the theory would require speculation about OSC choosing to exercise

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And it requires speculation about how OSC might choose to exercise its enforcement discretion, which the courts generally may not compel.
fact: In "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," while analyzing Article III standing and explaining that the plaintiff’s causation theory depended on speculation about OSC’s choices, the court said that the courts generally may not compel OSC to "exercise its enforcement discretion".
target:  "exercise its enforcement discretion".
probe: In "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," while analyzing Article III standing and explaining that the plaintiff’s causation theory depended on speculation about OSC’s choices, the court said that the courts generally may not compel OSC to

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And AFL overlooks the principle that redressability generally turns on how a judgment binds the parties, not whether its rationale “might persuade actors who are not before the court.”
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL's standing theory in part because redressability does not depend on whether a judgment's reasoning might persuade nonparties, and under the principle AFL overlooked, redressability generally turns on "how a judgment binds the parties".
target:  "how a judgment binds the parties".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL's standing theory in part because redressability does not depend on whether a judgment's reasoning might persuade nonparties, and under the principle AFL overlooked, redressability generally turns on

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: AFL’s second standing theory—based on its asserted informational interest in the fruits of the OSC investigation itself—fares no better.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court held that AFL’s second theory for Article III standing was based on the asserted informational interest in "the fruits of the OSC investigation itself".
target:  "the fruits of the OSC investigation itself".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court held that AFL’s second theory for Article III standing was based on the asserted informational interest in

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: AFL’s second standing theory—based on its asserted informational interest in the fruits of the OSC investigation itself—fares no better.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after rejecting AFL’s first Article III standing theory tied to FOIA records, the court described AFL’s second standing theory based on its asserted informational interest in the results of an OSC investigation as "fares no better".
target:  "fares no better".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after rejecting AFL’s first Article III standing theory tied to FOIA records, the court described AFL’s second standing theory based on its asserted informational interest in the results of an OSC investigation as

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A plaintiff claiming informational standing suffers a concrete injury if he is denied information that a “statute entitled him to receive.”
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the alleged concrete injury is being denied information that a statute entitled him to receive, a plaintiff claims "informational standing".
target:  "informational standing".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the alleged concrete injury is being denied information that a statute entitled him to receive, a plaintiff claims

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A plaintiff claiming informational standing suffers a concrete injury if he is denied information that a “statute entitled him to receive.”
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing Article III standing and informational standing, a plaintiff suffers an injury if he is denied information that a statute entitled him to receive, and that injury is a concrete injury.
target:  a concrete injury.
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing Article III standing and informational standing, a plaintiff suffers an injury if he is denied information that a statute entitled him to receive, and that injury is

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But here, even if section 1216(a)(3) requires OSC to investigate FOIA violations, it creates no entitlement to receive information.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL’s standing theory based on 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3) and said that even if the provision requires the Office of Special Counsel to investigate, it would cover FOIA violations.
target:  FOIA violations.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL’s standing theory based on 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3) and said that even if the provision requires the Office of Special Counsel to investigate, it would cover

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But here, even if section 1216(a)(3) requires OSC to investigate FOIA violations, it creates no entitlement to receive information.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the court addressed AFL’s informational-standing theory based on OSC’s alleged duty to investigate FOIA violations under 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3), it said that provision does not entitle a plaintiff to "receive information".
target:  "receive information".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the court addressed AFL’s informational-standing theory based on OSC’s alleged duty to investigate FOIA violations under 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3), it said that provision does not entitle a plaintiff to

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: AFL responds that, if OSC conducts the assertedly mandatory investigation under section 1216, it may choose to give AFL notices and information that would be required if OSC were investigating an alleged “prohibited personnel practice” under section 1214.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, AFL argued that if the Office of Special Counsel conducted the allegedly mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC might choose to provide AFL with the materials that would be required in a § 1214 prohibited-personnel-practice investigation, namely notices and information.
target:  notices and information.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, AFL argued that if the Office of Special Counsel conducted the allegedly mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC might choose to provide AFL with the materials that would be required in a § 1214 prohibited-personnel-practice investigation, namely

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: AFL responds that, if OSC conducts the assertedly mandatory investigation under section 1216, it may choose to give AFL notices and information that would be required if OSC were investigating an alleged “prohibited personnel practice” under section 1214.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, AFL argued that if OSC conducted a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC might provide notices and information like those required in an investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1214, where those requirements are triggered by an alleged "prohibited personnel practice".
target:  "prohibited personnel practice".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, AFL argued that if OSC conducted a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC might provide notices and information like those required in an investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1214, where those requirements are triggered by an alleged

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But AFL does not contend that OSC must engraft section 1214 notice requirements onto its section 1216 investigations.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, AFL argued that if the Office of Special Counsel conducted a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, it might provide notices and information like those required in investigations under § 1214, but AFL did not contend that OSC had to graft § 1214's notice requirements onto "its section 1216 investigations".
target:  "its section 1216 investigations".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, AFL argued that if the Office of Special Counsel conducted a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, it might provide notices and information like those required in investigations under § 1214, but AFL did not contend that OSC had to graft § 1214's notice requirements onto

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Absent any alleged entitlement to receive information under section 1214, AFL lacks a concrete injury sufficient to support its second standing theory.
fact: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court rejected AFL’s second standing theory because it had not alleged any entitlement to receive information under a particular statutory provision, namely "section 1214".
target:  "section 1214".
probe: According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court rejected AFL’s second standing theory because it had not alleged any entitlement to receive information under a particular statutory provision, namely

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Absent any alleged entitlement to receive information under section 1214, AFL lacks a concrete injury sufficient to support its second standing theory.
fact: According to the opinion in America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL’s second Article III standing theory, which was based on an asserted informational interest in the results of an OSC investigation, because absent any alleged entitlement to receive information under 5 U.S.C. § 1214, AFL lacked "a concrete injury".
target:  "a concrete injury".
probe: According to the opinion in America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, the court rejected AFL’s second Article III standing theory, which was based on an asserted informational interest in the results of an OSC investigation, because absent any alleged entitlement to receive information under 5 U.S.C. § 1214, AFL lacked

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Likewise, insofar as OSC need not provide section 1214 notice requirements in a section 1216 investigation, a judicial order mandating such an investigation would not be reasonably likely to redress AFL’s second alleged injury.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, while evaluating AFL’s second standing theory based on alleged informational injury from an OSC investigation, the court explained that because OSC need not provide section 1214 notice requirements in a section 1216 investigation, the requested relief would not be reasonably likely to redress AFL’s second alleged injury, a judicial order mandating such an investigation.
target:  a judicial order mandating such an investigation.
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, while evaluating AFL’s second standing theory based on alleged informational injury from an OSC investigation, the court explained that because OSC need not provide section 1214 notice requirements in a section 1216 investigation, the requested relief would not be reasonably likely to redress AFL’s second alleged injury,

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Because AFL lacks Article III standing, we vacate the district court’s judgment and remand with instructions to dismiss for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.
fact: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after concluding that AFL lacked Article III standing, the court instructed the district court on remand to dismiss the case for "lack of subject-matter jurisdiction".
target:  "lack of subject-matter jurisdiction".
probe: In America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer, after concluding that AFL lacked Article III standing, the court instructed the district court on remand to dismiss the case for

