--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a general framework for optimizing language models with direct preferences, using only gradient-based methods. Our experiments show that our approach can achieve significant improvements over existing methods, including baselines from the PPO family and reinforcement learning algorithms specifically designed for language, such as LMsPO and LMsRL.
Our code is available at https://github.com/AlgoLearner/linpo.

Introduction
The success of large language models (LLMs) such as BERT [Devlin et al., 2018] and GPT-NB [Chen et al., 2020a] has led to a surge of interest in applying these models to solve real-world problems. However, the ability to answer questions or complete tasks is not the same as being able to reason or express complex ideas. In this paper, we focus on the latter challenge, which is aligning language models with user preferences, also known as preference modeling or taste modeling. This aligns language models with human preferences for text in order to produce output that is both high-quality and in line with user intent. While existing methods for aligning language models exist, they typically rely on supervised learning from human feedback, which is both time-consuming and prone to errors. In this paper, inspired by the success of reinforcement learning algorithms for training deep neural networks (DNNs), we introduce Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), a simple and general framework for training LLMs with direct preferences. Our experiments show that DPO can achieve significant improvements over state-of-the-art methods, including baselines in the PPO family and algorithms specifically designed for language such as LMsPO (Chen et al.,2020b) and LMsRL (Chen et al,2020a).
The main idea behind DPO is to leverage the gradient of the loss function with respect to the reward with respect to the model, i.e., the loss, with respect to the gradient of the reward. This is similar to the standard practice in RL, where the reward function is optimized with respect to the policy. In the context of language, we can view the reward as a measure of how well the model satisfies the preferences expressed by the user. However, instead of optimizing the reward function, we optimize the loss function, which corresponds to the KL-divergence between the language model and the reference distribution specified by the preferences. We can interpret the loss as a proxy for the quality of the model, and the gradient of the loss with respect to the reward as a measure for how much we can improve the quality of the model with each update. Thus, DPO is essentially a gradient-based optimization algorithm for the KL-divergence, which we can interpret as a reward for the language model. We note that other methods for aligning language with preferences have been proposed, including methods that optimize a reward function directly [Chen et al, 2020b;Liu et al., 2022], but these methods are less general and do not leverage the power of RL algorithms.
In this paper, we make the following contributions: • We present a general framework for training language models with direct preferences using only gradient-based optimization algorithms. Our approach does not require any explicit reward function, and can be viewed as a generalization of PPO, RLPE, and LMsPO to the setting of language models. Our experiments show that the framework can achieve significant improvements over current state-of-the-art.
• We propose a simple yet effective method for initializing the language model, which improves performance on several preference modeling tasks.
• We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of different approaches for aligning language models, including methods that optimize reward functions (including our framework), methods that optimize the KL-divergence with a learned reward, and methods that optimize a proxy for the reward (such as the cross-entropy loss). Our experiments show that D PO can achieve significant improvements over the best existing methods, including basals from the PPO family.
2 Related Work

Language Models
Large language models (LLMs), such as BERT [Huang et al., 2019] and GPT-NBs [Chen et al. 2020a], have shown impressive capabilities in translation, question answering, and summarization. However, LLMs are trained on vast quantities of text, and their ability to generalize to new domains and tasks is limited. In this paper, our focus is on aligning LLMs with human preferences, rather than training them for general-purpose use. There are a number of approaches to aligning LLMs, including supervised learning from human feedback [Chen et al.;2020b;Wu et al., 2021], reinforcement learning [Chen et al;2020a], and unsupervised pre-training [Devlin et al.;2018;Radford et al.;2020;Shen et al.;2022]. In this paper, we consider only the RL-based approach, which has been particularly successful for training LLMs on specific tasks [Chen et al.:2020b