According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank', from the location of the rifle, the DNA match, and the witnesses’ identifications, the jury could infer that Cutbank: possessed the rifle
According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank', when D.F. and C.F. said they had seen Cutbank with the same sawed-off rifle before the charged night, that evidence supported the non-propensity point on the possession issue of: ownership or control
According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank,' given these facts, the trial safeguard Cutbank requested that was not required to prevent the confrontation problem he predicted was: a pretestimony limiting instruction
According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank', combining Cutbank’s prior record with the offense conduct the court recounted, the common aggravating theme that supported affirming the within-range 292-month sentence was: violence and firearms
According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank', the record showed that the district court gave the § 3553(a) factors: actual consideration
According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank,' given those facts, the appellate court concluded that the district court’s denial of Cutbank’s request for a pre-testimony limiting instruction concerning D.F.’s statements to police was: no abuse of discretion
According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank', under the sentencing sequence described by the panel, once the Guidelines range was correctly calculated, Cutbank’s claim that a guideline sentence was greater than necessary would be addressed by a: departure or variance
According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank', because the government's testimonial and physical evidence was substantial, Cutbank's attempt to obtain reversal based on the combined effect of the trial rulings resulted in: no substantial prejudice
According to the opinion 'United States v. Justin Cutbank', once the panel concluded that the enhancement was not a Guidelines miscalculation, it was then able to undertake: substantive reasonableness review
