\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits"}

### Why can a 13B BitNet b1.58 model be 'more efficient' than a 3B FP16 LLM?
Question:
This seems counter-intuitive to me. Usually, a 13B parameter model is significantly larger and slower than a 3B parameter model. The paper claims that 13B BitNet b1.58 is more efficient in terms of latency, memory usage, and energy than a 3B FP16 LLM. Can someone explain the 'new scaling law' here? How does the reduction in bit-precision from 16-bit to 1.58-bit overcome the overhead of having over four times as many parameters?
Answer:
The apparent paradox of a 13B parameter BitNet b1.58 model being more efficient than a 3B FP16 model stems from a fundamental shift in the computational and architectural bottlenecks of Large Language Models (LLMs). In standard LLMs, performance is heavily gated by two primary factors: the energy and time cost of floating-point multiplications and the memory bandwidth required to move weights from DRAM to the processor's on-chip memory (SRAM). BitNet b1.58 addresses both of these bottlenecks simultaneously by reducing the bit-precision of the weights to a ternary set $\{-1, 0, 1\}$.

From a computational perspective, the paper explains that the majority of the cost in vanilla LLMs comes from floating-point addition and multiplication during matrix multiplications. By restricting weights to $\{-1, 0, 1\}$, BitNet b1.58 replaces these expensive operations with integer additions. Because integer addition is significantly cheaper in terms of energy and faster in terms of execution than floating-point multiplication, the "cost per parameter" is drastically reduced. This means that even if you have four times as many parameters, the total energy and time required to process those parameters can be lower than a smaller model that still relies on 16-bit floating-point math.

From a memory perspective, the bottleneck is often the speed at which weights can be transferred from DRAM to the on-chip accelerator. Because 1.58-bit weights occupy much less space than 16-bit weights, the memory footprint is significantly smaller from both a capacity and a bandwidth standpoint. This reduction in bit-precision allows the model to "feed" the weights to the processor much more efficiently. Even though a 13B model has more parameters, the fact that each parameter is roughly $10 \times$ smaller in bit-width (1.58 bits vs 16 bits) results in a net reduction in the total amount of data that must be moved during inference.

Finally, the paper notes that these efficiency gains scale favorably with model size. As the model size increases, the proportion of the total computation and memory dedicated to the $\text{nn.Linear}$ layers grows, while the overhead from other components (such as embeddings) remains relatively constant or represents a smaller percentage of the total cost. Since the $\text{nn.Linear}$ layers are the components that benefit most from the ternary weight optimization, the efficiency gap between BitNet and standard FP16 models widens as the models get larger. This creates the "new scaling law" where a larger 1.58-bit model can become more efficient than a significantly smaller full-precision model because the massive reduction in the cost of the operations performed on those parameters completely overshadows the linear increase in the number of parameters.