\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits"}

### Why are activations kept at 8-bit while weights are reduced to 1.58-bit?
Question:
The paper states that BitNet b1.58 is trained with 1.58-bit weights and 8-bit activations. If the goal is to maximize efficiency and move toward a 1-bit paradigm, why isn't the activation precision also reduced to 1-bit or 2-bit? Does keeping activations at 8-bit prevent gradient instability during backpropagation, or is there a hardware reason why 8-bit activations are preferred for the 'BitLinear' layers?
Answer:
The distinction between the precision of weights and the precision of activations is a fundamental design choice in BitNet b1.58 that balances the goals of extreme computational efficiency with the requirements of representational capacity and trainability. While the ultimate goal of the 1.58-bit paradigm is to move toward a 1-bit architecture, keeping activations at 8-bit serves several critical purposes related to information theory, hardware optimization, and training dynamics.

From an information-theoretic perspective, activations represent the dynamic "signal" passing through the network. While weights are static parameters that the model learns, activations must capture the nuanced features of the input data. If activations were reduced to 1-bit or 2-bit precision, the network would effectively become a series of hard thresholding operations. This would lead to a massive loss of information at every layer, as the model would struggle to preserve the subtle differences between different tokens or concepts. By maintaining 8-bit activations, the model ensures that the "signal" remains rich enough to be processed by the subsequent layers. The paper notes that the 8-bit activation scheme (specifically scaling them to $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ per token) introduces "negligible effects to the performance," suggesting that 8 bits provide a sufficient "sweet spot" where the model retains its expressive power while still benefiting from reduced memory footprint compared to FP16.

Regarding the hardware and implementation aspects, the authors explicitly mention that 8-bit activations are "convenient and simple for both implementation and system-level optimization." Most modern hardware, such as GPUs and specialized AI accelerators, is already highly optimized for INT8 arithmetic. By using 8-bit activations, the model can leverage existing, highly-tuned kernels for integer math. Moving to a 1-bit or 2-bit activation scheme would require specialized hardware logic or custom kernels that may not yet be as efficient as standard INT8 operations on current-generation hardware. The primary efficiency gain of BitNet b1.58 comes from the fact that 1.58-bit weights allow the matrix multiplication $W x$ to be computed using only integer additions, which is where the massive energy savings occur. Since the weights are the parameters being compressed, reducing them to $\{-1, 0, 1\}$ is the primary driver for the new computation paradigm.

Finally, your intuition regarding gradient stability is highly relevant. In many quantization schemes, particularly those trained from scratch, maintaining a higher precision for activations during the forward pass helps ensure that the gradients calculated during backpropagation remain stable and meaningful. If activations were too constrained, the gradient signal could vanish or become extremely noisy, making it difficult for the model to converge. The paper acknowledges this balance by stating that while 8-bit is used currently, further compression of activations to 4 bits or even lower is considered "future work," implying that while it is theoretically possible to lower the activation bit-depth, it requires further investigation into the trade-offs between compression and model convergence.