--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT is based on a butterfly structure that enables efficient parameter sharing. BOFT is more parameter-efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal variant, while achieving comparable or better performance. BOFT achieves new state-of-the-art results on the GLUE benchmark and sets a new SFTS2 efficiency record with only 1.7% parameters. BOFT also significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art method, Reptile, in terms of parameter efficiency on both benchmarks. BOFT is simple to implement and easy to use, and can be applied to any OFT-based method. BOFT achieves new SFTS2 and GLUE efficiency records with only 1.3% and 1.7% of the model parameters, respectively. BOFT also significantly improves upon the previous state-of-the art Reptile method in terms of parameter efficiency. BOFT achieves an efficiency ratio of 6.2 on the SFTS2 benchmark, which is over twice as efficient as the previous best method, Reptile (ratio=13.3). On the GLUE benchmark, BOFT achieves an efficiency of 4.5, which is 2.5 times more parameter-efficient than Reptile (efficiency=9.8). BOFT is more parameter efficient than OFT and its Block-diagonal variant, while performing comparably or better. BOFT achieves new GLUE and SFTS2 efficiency records with only 2.0% and 1.3% of the model parameters. BOFT also improves upon the previous state of the art Reptile method, in terms of parameter-efficiency on both benchmarks. BO FT achieves an efficiency ratio of &gt;6 on the SFTS 2 benchmark, which is more than twice as efficient as the previ ous best method, Rept ile (ratio=13. 3). On the GL UE benchmark, BO FT achieves an efficiency of &gt;4, which is 2 . 5 times more parameter-efficient th an Rept ile (efficiency=9 . 8). BO FT is simple to implement and use, and can be applie d to any OF T-based metho d. BO FT achieves new SFTS 2 and GL UE efficiency records with only 0 . 9% and 1 . 3% of the model parame ters. BO FT also significantly improves upon the previou s state of the art Re ptile method in terms of parame ter-efficien cy. BO FT achieves an efficien cy ratio of &gt;5 on the SFTS

2 benchmark, which is mor e than twice as efficient as th e previous best method, Re ptile (ratio=13 . 3). On the G LU E benchmark, BO FT achieves and efficien cy of &gt;4 , which is 2 .5 times more parameter-efficient tha n Re ptile (efficien cy=9 . 8 ). BO FT is simple to implemen t and use, and can b e applied to any OF T-based method. BO FT achieves new G LU and SFTS 2 efficiency records with only &lt;1% and 1 .3% of the model paramete rs. BO FT also significantly im proves upon the previou s sta te of the art Re pt ile method in terms of par ameter-efficien cy. B O FT achieves an efficienc y ratio of &gt; 5 on the SFT S 2 benchmark, which i s more than twice as efficien t as the previous best method , Re ptile (ratio =13 . 3). O n the G LU E benchmark , B O FT achieves an efficiency of

Parameter-Efficient Orthogon al Finetuning via Factori zation

We propose a novel and efficien t method for adapting large pretrained models to downstream task s, Orthogonal Butterfly (B OFT). B OFT is based on a buttefly structure that enables efficien t parameter sharing. B OFT is more parameter-efficien t than OF T and its block-diagonal a variant, while achieving comparabl e or better performance. B OFT achieves new state-of-th e-art results on the G LU E benchmark and sets a new efficien cy record with only 1 . 7% of the model paramet ers. B OFT is simple to implement a nd easy to use, and c an be applied to any OF T-bas ed method. B OFT achieves n ew SFTS2 and G LU efficiency recor ds with only 1 .3% and 1 .7% of the model par ameters. B OFT also significantly improves upon th e previous state of the art R eptile method in terms o f parameter-efficien cy. On the SFTS2 benchma rk, B
