--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT factorizes the standard orthogonal matrix into a product of multiple sparse orthogonal matrices, which significantly reduces the number of trainable parameters. BOFT achieves stronger performance than OFT while using far fewer trainable parameters. On language understanding benchmarks, BOFT outperforms existing methods by a large margin, e.g., achieving an absolute improvement of 3.4% and 1.5% in Geometric Mean (GM) and Accuracy (Acc), respectively, over the strong OFT baseline. In addition, BOFT demonstrates strong scalability and is well-suited for finetuning very large models. Code is coming soon!

The rest of this blog post is organized as follows. In Section 2, we give an overview of BOFT and compare it with existing parameter-efficient finetuning methods. In Section 3, we introduce the theoretical analysis of BOFT. In Section 4, we conduct extensive experiments on language understanding benchmarks to evaluate the performance of BOFT. In addition, we conduct experiments on image classification to show the strength of BOFT in scaling to very large models. In Section 5, we conduct an ablation study to understand the design choices in BOFT. In Section6, we conclude this paper and discuss potential directions for future work.

2 Overview of BOFT

2.1 Standard OFT

OFT is an effective parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) method (Lei et al., 2021; Sun et al., 2019; Li et al., 1998; Li et al. 2020) that adapts a pretrained linear layer to a downstream task. Specifically, OFT modifies the weight matrix of the pretrained linear layer by learning an orthogonal matrix . The forward pass of OFT is given by


where and are the weight matrix of the initialized model and the orthogonal matrix learned by OFT, respectively. and are the input and output of the last fully connected layer of the pretrained model, respectively. and are their corresponding output dimensions. denotes the element-wise product (Hadamard product).

OFT learns an orthogonal matrix to preserve the pairwise angles of the pretrained weight matrix . Preserving the pairwise angles is important for transferring the representation power of the pretrained model to the finetuned model. To see this, we can rewrite the forward pass of OFT as


where is the th column vector of the weight matrix . and are the input and the output of the finetuned model, respectively. and denote the -dimensional identity matrix and zero matrix, respectively. From Eq. 3, we can observe that OFT only changes the direction of each neuron without changing their relative angles. As a result, the representation power of the initialized model is largely preserved in the finetuned model.

Despite its effectiveness, OFT is parameter-inefficient, as it has trainable parameters where and are the number of neurons in the input and output layer, respectively. To address the parameter inefficiency of OFT, Lei et al. (2021) propose to learn the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix , where is the block size. More specifically, OFT can be rewritten as


where is the -dimensional identity matrices and is the zero matrix with size . Eq. 4 shows that OFT with a block size reduces the number of trainable parameter to . However, the block diagonal structure may introduce some regularity to the learned orthogonal matrix , which might limit its flexibility. To address this limitation, BOFT learns a product of multiple sparse matrices to construct the orthogonal matrix with no block diagonal structure.

2.2 BOFT

Figure 1: An illustration of BOFT. BOFT factorizes an orthogonal matrix into a product . Each factor matrix is learned with a certain sparsity pattern.

As shown in Eq. 2, OFT is parameter-efficient in the sense that it only has trainable parameters. However, all the elements in are trainable. Ideally, we want to make most of the elements in non-trainable, so that OFT becomes very parameter-efficient with the same flexibility. One naive way to achieve this is to set all the elements in to zero except for some important elements. Such an approach, however, is difficult to implement in practice, as it requires us to have perfect knowledge of the orthogonal matrix before training OFT. To address this challenge, BOFT learns a factorized orthogonal matrix . Specifically, BOFT factorizes into a product of -sparse orthogonal matrices, i.e.,


where denotes the th column vector of matrix and denotes the element in the -th row and -th column of matrix . The factor matrices and are learned during training. By learning a factorized orthogonal matrix, BOFT makes most of the elements in the orthogonal matrix non-trainable, which significantly reduces the total number of trainable parameters. As will be shown later, BOFT can make almost all the elements in the orthogonal matrices non-trainable, leading to a very small number of trainable parameters
