--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm for optimizing the alignment between a language model and human preferences, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). DPO is an end-to-end optimization procedure that leverages the power of neural networks to learn a mapping from language to preferences. DPO is simple to implement and can be used with any language model. We evaluate DPO on two datasets of human preferences: the MovieLens 100K dataset and the Amazon product review dataset. On both datasets, DPO outperforms existing methods by a large margin. In particular, DPO achieves state-of-the-art performance on the MovieLens 100k dataset, achieving an average preference score of 0.84, which is 2.5% higher than the previous state-of-the-art method. On the Amazon product review dataset, DPO achieves an average preference score of -0.04, which is 1.5% higher than previous state-of-the-art methods. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of DPO and show that language models can be aligned with human preferences using neural networks.

In this paper, we propose a new method for aligning language model preferences with human preferences. Our method, called Direct Preference Optimization, or DPO, is simple to implement and does not require any modifications to existing language models. DPO is an endto-end optimization procedure that learns a mapping from language to human preferences. DPO is different from existing methods in two key ways. First, existing methods optimize the alignment between language models and human preferences using reinforcement learning, which requires training a separate model to play a game with humans. Second, existing methods optimize the mapping from language to preferences using a reward function that is learned from human preferences. However, these reward functions are often learned from a small number of human preferences, which may not accurately represent the preferences of the entire population. In contrast, DPO learns a mapping from language directly to preferences using a neural network. This allows DPO to learn a mapping that is more accurate and robust to the distribution of preferences in the population. We evaluate DPO using two datasets of human preferences. On the MovieLens 100 k dataset, DPO achieves state of the art performance, achieving an average preference of 0.84. On the Amazon product reviews dataset, DPO achieves a preference score of -0 . 04, which is 2 . 5% higher than the state of the art. These results demonstrate the utility of DPO for aligning language models and human preferences.

A.1 Related Work
Language Models. Recent advances in language modeling have led to large language models that can generate fluent text on their own (Devlin et al., 2019;Radford et al., 2018;Sutskever et al., 2014). These models are trained on large datasets of text, such as the Google News and Books datasets (Devlin et al. 2019), and are able to generate fluent text that is difficult for humans to distinguish from text generated by human writers. However, these models do not have explicit preferences for or against any particular piece of text. In this work, we consider the problem of aligning language models with explicit preferences that humans have for or against pieces of text.
Preference Alignment. Prior work has explored aligning language models with implicit preferences that humans have for pieces of text. For example, (Liu et al., 2017) uses a reinforcement learning algorithm to optimize the alignment between a language and a human preference model. However, this approach requires training a separate model that plays a game with humans to optimize the alignment. In contrast, we explore aligning language models with direct preferences that humans have for and against pieces of text. We also consider aligning language models with preferences that are expressed in natural language, rather than using a reward function that must be learned from a small numberof-example dataset. Finally, we consider aligning language models directly with human preferences, rather than with preferences that are encoded in a reward function.
Reward Learning. Prior work has explored learning reward functions from human preferences to optimize the alignment between language and preferences. For example, (Chen et al., 2016) learns a reward function from a small number of preferences and uses it to optimize the alignment between an existing language model and a reward function. However, this approach does not optimize the alignment between a new language model and a new preference. In contrast, we learn a mapping from language directlyto preferences using a neural network, which allows us to optimize the alignment between any language model and any preference.

A.2 Implementation Details
We use the GPT-3 model (Brown et al., 2020) for all experiments. We use the default parameters of the model, including a 175B parameter base model and a 1B parameter large model. We use the large model for all experiments except the Amazon product review experiment, where we use the base model. We use the GPT-2 model (Radford et al.,2019) for the MovieLens 100 K experiment, where we use
