--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm for optimizing the alignment between a language model and human preferences, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). DPO is an end-to-end optimization procedure that leverages the power of neural networks to learn a mapping from language to preferences. DPO is simple to implement and can be used with any language model. We evaluate DPO on two datasets of human preferences for movies and music. On both datasets, DPO outperforms baselines that optimize for model performance or maximize human preferences. DPO also shows promise for improving the quality of language models in downstream tasks such as question-answering. We release the code for DPO and other related tools on GitHub.

A.1 Related Work
Language Models. Large language models are trained to predict the next word in a sequence of text given a context of several words. These models have achieved state-of-the-art performance on a variety of tasks, including natural language understanding (NLP) and generation. The most popular large language models are GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) and OpenAI's GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2022), which are trained on billions of words of text from the web. While these models perform well on a variety of tasks (GPT-3, 2020;Brown et al., 2019), they do not always produce high-quality output. For example, GPT-3 (2020) predicts that the word "the" should follow the word "sugar" in the sentence "I like the taste of sugar." However, this prediction is not very plausible, and the sentence is better represented by the sentence "I like sugar." This problem is known as the "poverty of the stimulus" problem, and it is a challenge for large language models.
To address this challenge, researchers have proposed various methods for fine-tuning large language models to perform specific tasks. For example, GptTune (Chen et al., 2021) fine-tunes GPT-3 on a task-specific dataset to improve its performance on that task. Another approach is to use a pre-trained language model as a base model and fine-tune it with a task-specific objective. This is the approach taken by BERT (Devlin et al., 2018), which is fine-tuned on the Wikipedia text corpus to perform various NLP tasks. The most popular pre-trained language model is BERT (Devlin, 2019), which is fine-tuning on the Wikipedia text corpus. BERT is a large language model that can perform various NLP tasks, but it does not perform well on all tasks. To address this limitation, researchers have proposed various fine-tuning objectives for BERT, including maximizing the likelihood of the input-output pairs (Devlin et al, 2019;Radford et al., 2017;Liu et al., 2022), maximizing the mutual information between the input and output (Radford et al., , 2018, and maximizing the cross-entropy loss between the output and target labels (Liu et al., , 2022. These objectives are effective for improving the performance of BERT on a variety of tasks. However, they do not directly optimize the preferences of humans for the output of the language model. In this paper, we propose a new objective for fine-tuning language models that directly optimizes the preferences of humans for their output. Our objective is based on the idea that the language model should be optimized to maximize the probability of the human preferences, rather than maximizing the likelihood of the inputs. This is because the preferences of humans are not directly observable, so we cannot optimize the language model to maximize the likelihood of the inputs that humans actually see. Instead, we can optimize the language model to optimize the preferences of humans, which is a more realistic objective. We call this objective the "secret reward" objective, because it optimizes the language model to maximize its secret reward of maximizing the human preferences. We show that the secret reward objective can be efficiently learned using a neural network, and we present a simple algorithm for optimizing the secret reward objective. We evaluate our method on two datasets of human preference data for movies and music. Our results show that the language model produced by the secret reward objective performs better than baselines that optimize for language model performance or maximize the human preferences. We also show that the secret reward model can be used to improve the performance of downstream tasks such as question answering.

A.2 Overview
In this section, we provide an overview of the paper. Section A.1 introduces the problem of aligning language models with preferences. Section A.2 describes the secret reward objective and the algorithm for optimizing it. Section A.3 describes experiments and results. Finally, Section A.4 discusses future work.

A.3 Experiments and Results
We evaluate the performance of the secret reward objective on two datasets of human movie preferences and two datasets of human music preferences. In all experiments, we use the PyTorch implementation of the secret
