--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a principled way to optimize a language model's reward function, which can be anything that depends on the model's output to reward high-quality output and penalize low-quality output. This is important because modern language models are trained using methods that optimize a reward defined over the language model's output that includes rewards for matching the reward function isomorphic properties with tasks such as PPO or RL4DataGen. While it is is possible to customize the reward function used in language models, the difficulty of this task is not recognized in the community. Our approach faces into the direction of the preference and we show how to optimize an abstract reward function in general using a line of thought first proposed in the paper Fair RL: The Role of Relevance as described in our introduction. We find that the reward optimization problem can be boiled down to a well-known optimal control problem, which has a long history in the literature but is not typically framed in terms of a reward function. We solve this problem for the special case of optimizing an exponential family reward function, which represents the most common type of reward function used in language modeling. We give an optimal control algorithm that can be implemented efficiently with dynamic programming. We also present an efficient heuristics based on a quantity called the relative entropy of revelation, which works well in practice. We evaluate the reward optimization algorithms on both human preference data and generative quality data. When human data is available, we observe performance that is on par with state-of-the-art automatic metrics, and that is significantly better than random chance. When human data is not available, our algorithm performs as well or better than state-of-the-art implicit algorithms.
Our paper makes the following contributions: (1) A well-defined reward optimization problem for language models; (2) An optimal control algorithm for solving the reward optimization problem; (3) A fast implicit algorithm for executing the reward optimization algorithm; and (4) Experiments that show our reward optimization algorithm outperforms a control theory algorithm and a Monte Carlo simulation of a dynamic programming solution to the reward optimization problem.

Related Work
Language Models. The most state-of-the-art language model is OpenAI's GPT-NB10M, an 10-billion-parameter model. We note that although these large models perform well, they are trained using methods that maximize a reward that is defined over the distribution being modeled; see the paper Language Models Are Low-Dimensional Generalization Machines for a related discussion. There has been a recent surge of interest in comparing different language models and various metrics for measuring model quality. We refer the reader to an updated survey on language metrics in Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing  for additional references. Secret Reward. The secret reward model makes the assumption that the reward for an optimal policy is a secret known only to the RL agent and an external observer. Under this model, the external observer can construct measurements of the policy's quality without ever revealing the secret reward, which can take any function of the policy's output that is isomorphic to the reward function R. The problem of inferring the secret reward from these measurements is known as the Isomorphism Problem. Secret reward models form the basis of the framework used to train language models with reinforcement learning algorithms such as RL4DataGen and Proximal Policy Optimization with Importance Sampling. In this paper, we focus on directly optimizing the reward function of the language model without the use of off-policy reinforcement learning algorithms. Direct Preference Optimization. Direct preference optimization (DPO) is a class of algorithms for optimizing functions that measure the quality of potential solutions to a problem. DPO algorithms exist for a wide range of problems, including optimization, clustering, and machine learning. We are not aware of prior work on directly optimizing the reward functions used by language models with a DPO algorithm. However, the reward optimization problem we consider is similar to the Isomorphism Problem described above, and there has been prior work on algorithms for the Isomorphism Problem that can be adapted to this setting. Relative Entropy of Revelation. The relative entropy of revelation is a measure of the uncertainty in a probability distribution. It is equal to the entropy of the distribution plus the negative expected value of the Kullback-Leibler divergence between the distribution and a reference distribution. We use the relative entropy of revelation in our optimization algorithm because it has several nice properties, including the fact that it is convex and can be computed efficiently. However, the relative entropy of revelation is not always less than or equal to the relative entropy of the reward function and the reference distribution, which means that an optimization algorithm based on the relative entropy of revelation must include a termination criterion. We include a termination criterion based on the approximation of the reward by its relative entropy of revelation using the Monte Carlo method of Monte Carlo Convergence Theorem 2.6 in Aldous (2014). 3 Alternatives to DPO that do not have an analogous termination criterion, such as the Bregman Distance Convergence Theorem in Bregman (1967), do not have an efficient sampling algorithm and so would require a sequence of samples to
