--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm for optimizing the alignment between a language model and human preferences, called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). DPO is an end-to-end optimization procedure that leverages the power of neural networks to learn a mapping from language to preferences. DPO is simple to implement and can be used with any language model. We evaluate DPO on two datasets of human preferences for movie reviews: the MovieLens-100K dataset and the MovieLens-1K dataset. On both datasets, DPO outperforms baselines that optimize for model performance or maximize human preferences. DPO also shows promise for improving the quality of language models in downstream tasks such as question answering and machine translation.

A: Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language model is a Secret Reward


Problem: This paper proposes a new approach to the problem of generating text that is semantically coherent with a given source text. Our method, called GENIco, jointly learns a text generation model and a graph neural network that encodes the semantic structure of the source text. We find that this graph model can be used to generate coherent text by only marginally increasing the complexity of the text generation model. We present several novel techniques for training and evaluating coherence generation models. Experiments on four datasets of human-generated coherence show that GENIco produces text that is as fluent as state-of-the-art models, while being significantly more coherent.

A: Generating Semantically Coherent Text


Problem: We introduce a new approach to the task of summarization, called GPT. GPT takes as input a source article and a target summary and produces as output a sentence sequence that we evaluate as an optimal summary. We find that GPT outperforms all previous models on several datasets and text classes. GPT is simple to use and does not require any manual interventions; we only provide it with the source article and a evaluation protocol. We make GPT available as open-source code (https://github.com/google-research/paper-gpt).

A: Generating Optimal Summaries with Flow-based Translation


Problem: We introduce the first large-scale study of the impact of social media on political attitudes and behavior. Using data from the 2016 U.S. presidential election, we analyze how exposure to candidate posts on Facebook and Twitter affects voting intentions and other attitudes. We find that exposure to a candidate's social media posts increases support for that candidate by 5-21 percentage points, depending on the metric analyzed. These effects are politically and party-discriminatory, as they hold for each of two opposing candidates and across three different statistical models for measuring social media effects. We also find that the magnitude of the effect depends on when a person first sees a post: the effect is stronger for people who first see a post after becoming exposed to a candidate than for those who first see a post while still supporting the opponent. These results suggest that social media plays a role in determining who votes, and that its influence varies by when and where people become exposed to candidate posts.

A: Social Media and the 2016 U.s. Presidential Election<|endoftext|>
