--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. The paper is about how to control text-to-image diffusion by finetuning the weights of the diffusion network. The paper is written in a very clear and concise way, so I will try to summarize it as much as possible.

The paper introduces a new method called "Orthogonal Finetuning" (OFT). OFT is a way to control the diffusion of the diffusion network by finetuning the diffusion weights. The OFT is based on the idea that the diffusion network can be viewed as a linear transformation. The diffusion network is a linear transformation from the input space to the output space. The OFT is a way of controlling the linear transformation by finetuning the weight matrix of the linear transformation. The OFT is also a way of controlling the diffusion of the diffusion networks by finetuning the parameters of the diffusion network.

The OFT is based on a simple idea: the diffusion network can be seen as a linear transformation from the image space to the text space. The OFT can be viewed as a way of controlling the transformation by finetuning its weight matrix. The OFT is an orthogonal transformation, which means that the transformation is orthogonal to the identity transformation. This means that the transformation preserves the angles between the vectors in the image space and the text space. This is important because it means that the transformation preserves certain properties of the images and texts, such as the shape and the structure of the images and texts.

The OFT is a way for controlling the diffusion of the text-to-image diffusion network. The OFT is used to control the diffusion of text-to-image diffusion networks by finetunning the diffusion weights. The diffusion weights are the weights of the diffusion matrix. The OFT can also be used to control the diffusion weights of the diffusion network by changing the angle between the diffusion matrix and the identity matrix. This is important because the angle between the diffusion matrices is related to the diffusion rate of the diffusion network.

This is a very interesting paper. It is a very good example of how to use deep learning to solve a problem. The OFT is very simple and easy to understand. It is also very effective. The OFT is not only a way to control the text-to-image diffusion, but also a way to control the image-to-text diffusion. The OFT is the first step towards a complete solution to the problem of text-to-image diffusion.

The OFT is very simple to understand. It is a very effective way to control the text to image diffusion. The OFT can control the diffusion rate of the text-to-image network by changing the angle of the diffusion matrix. This is important, because the angle between the two matrices is related to the rate of diffusion. The OFT also controls the diffusion rate of the image-to-text network by changing the angle. This is important, as the angle between the two networks is related to the rate at which the text-to-image network is able to learn the text-to-image network.

The OFT can be used to control the text-to-text diffusion. The text-to-text diffusion is a very important part of the text-to-image problem. The OFT can help to control the text-to- image diffusion. The OFTs can also be used to help control the text-to-image network. The OFT can even be used to control the image-to-image diffusion. The OFT has many applications in the text-to-image problem.

The OFT is an orthogonal transform. It is a way to control text-to-image diffusions. The OFT is useful for controlling the text-to-image diffusion. The text-to-image diffusion is a very important problem in the text-to-image field. The OFT is one of the most important tools for controlling the text-toimage diffusion. The OFT helps to control the text-toimage diffusion.

The OFT can also be applied to the image-to-text diffusion problem. The OFT helps control the image-to-text diffusions. The image-to-text diffusion is a problem that is very important in the text-to-image domain. The OFT can solve the image-to-text diffusion.

The OFT has many applications. The OFT can apply to many different problems. The OFT can work with many different types of data. The OFT can use many different methods to control the text-to image diffusion. The OFTS can be used to control text-to-image and image-to-text diffusions.

The OFT can control text-to-image and text-to-image diffusion. It can also be used to solve the image-to-text and image-to-text diffusion problems. The OFT is important for controlling text-to-image and text to image diffusion. It is also important for controlling text-to image and image-to text diffusion. The OFT works with many different types of text and images. The OFT can handle many different types of text. The OFT can do many different things. The OFT can make text-to-image and textto-image diffusions.

The OFTS can be used for many different purposes. The OFTS can control text-to-image diffusion. The OFTS
