--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", what is BitNet b1.58?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", what is BitNet b1.58?<|EOT|>BitNet b1.58 is a 1.58-bit LLM (Large Language Model) created by OpenAI. It is the first LLM that uses adaptive arithmetic coding, a new compression algorithm, to compress the model to 1.58 bits per datum. This is significantly better than the previously best-known 1.69 bits, and approaches the information-based lower bound of 1.58 bits.

LLMs are trained on large text corpora and can perform a variety of natural language processing tasks. As the size of the LLM increases, its performance on these tasks also improves. However, larger models also require more memory and computational resources to train and deploy. Therefore, there is interest in finding ways to compress LLMs while preserving their performance.

Arithmetic coding is a lossless data compression technique that represents data as a single rational number in a given interval. It works by mapping each possible symbol to a non-overlapping interval whose total length is equal to 1. The sequence of symbols is then mapped to the intersection of the intervals corresponding to each symbol in the sequence. This results in a single interval that represents the entire sequence.

In the context of LLMs, arithmetic coding can be used to compress the weights of the model. The basic idea is to map each weight value to an interval, and then represent the entire weight matrix as the intersection of the intervals for each weight value. This approach was used in the previous state-of-the-art 1.69-bit LLM, but it had some limitations. In particular, it assumed a uniform prior over the weight values, which limited its ability to achieve the information-theoretic lower bound of 1.

To improve upon this, OpenAI introduced adaptive arithmetic coding, which uses a learned prior distribution over the weight values. This allows the model to more accurately estimate the entropy of the data and achieve a better compression rate. Specifically, they use a neural network to estimate the cumulative distribution function (CDF) of the weight values, and then use this CDF to compute the arithmetic codes for the weights.

BitNet b1.<|endoftext|>
