--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", what is BitNet b1.58?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", what is BitNet b1.58?<|EOT|>BitNet b1.58 is a 1.58-bit LLM (Large Language Model) created by OpenAI. It is the first LLM that uses adaptive arithmetic coding, a new compression algorithm, to compress the model to 1.58 bits per datum. This is significantly better than the previously best-known 1.69 bits, and approaches the information-theoretic lower bound of 1.58 bits.

LLMs are neural networks trained on large text corpora that can perform a variety of natural language processing tasks. As the size of these models has increased, so has their computational cost and carbon footprint. One approach to reducing the cost of LLMs is to use more efficient data representations. The most common data representation for LLMs is 16-bit floating point numbers, but recent work has shown that it is possible to train LLMs using lower precision data types, such as 4-bit integers. These low precision models are known as sub-4-bit LLMs.

The information content of a datum from a LLM can be quantified by its entropy, which is defined as the average number of yes/no questions needed to identify an arbitrary datum. For a fair comparison of different data representations, the entropy of a datum should be the same regardless of the representation used. This leads to the concept of bits per datum, which is the base-2 logarithm of the number of possible representations of a datum. For example, a 4-bit integer can represent 16 possible values, so it has 4 bits per datum.

The information-theoretic lower limit on the bits per datum is given by the binary entropy function, which is a function of the entropy of the data. For LLM data, the entropy is approximately 4.2 nats (natural units of information), which corresponds to 2.58 bits per datum.

Arithmetic coding is a lossless data compression technique that represents a datum as a range of values within a fixed interval. It works by mapping each possible value of a datum to a non-overlapping interval of a unit interval. The intervals are then sorted and encoded as a single number that represents the start of the range of the first value and the end of the range of the last value.

Adaptive arithmetic coding is a variant of arithmetic coding that adaptively adjusts the size of the intervals based on the data being encoded. This can improve the compression ratio by allocating more bits to values that occur more frequently.

BitNet b1.5<|endoftext|>
