\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"}

### Why is the number of adapter layers more critical than the rank $r$?
Question:
In Section 4, the authors find that the most critical LoRA hyperparameter for matching 16-bit performance is the number of adapters used (applying them to all linear layers), while the projection dimension $r$ has little effect. This is surprising to me because the rank $r$ usually determines the capacity of the adapter. Why would adding adapters to more layers be more effective for recovering quantization loss than increasing the rank of a few adapters?
Answer:
The intuition that the rank $r$ determines the capacity of an adapter is generally correct for standard task adaptation. However, in the context of QLoRA, the goal is not just to adapt the model to a new task, but specifically to recover the performance loss induced by 4-bit quantization. Because quantization is applied globally across all weights in the model, the resulting precision errors are distributed across every single linear layer.

When you increase the rank $r$ of a few adapters (such as only in the query and value projections), you are increasing the "expressive power" or the capacity of the update for those specific layers. However, this does nothing to address the quantization errors occurring in the MLP layers, the key projections, or the output projections. Essentially, you are making a few "patches" in the network very thick, while leaving the rest of the model's weights degraded by quantization.

By instead increasing the number of adapter layers—applying them to all linear transformer block layers—you are providing the model with a mechanism to correct quantization errors throughout the entire architecture. This "breadth" of coverage is more critical than the "depth" of capacity at any single point because the quantization loss is a systemic issue affecting the whole network. The authors find that this global coverage is the primary requirement for matching 16-bit performance, while the specific value of $r$ becomes secondary.

From a practical standpoint, the paper justifies this approach by analyzing the memory footprint. In large language models, the majority of GPU memory is consumed by the base model weights and the activation gradients, not the adapter parameters themselves. For a 7B model, the LoRA weights might only take up 26 MB, while the input gradients are significantly more memory-intensive. Because the marginal cost of adding more adapters is so low relative to the total memory usage, it is far more efficient to distribute a small amount of capacity across all layers than to concentrate a large amount of capacity in only a few.