--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I'll start with the basics and then move on to the more advanced topics.

What is Orthogonal Finetuning?

Orthogonal Finetuning is a technique for fine-tuning neural networks. It is a method that is both parameter-efficient and effective. It is a method for fine-tuning neural network parameters that is both parameter-efficient (fewer trainable parameters) and effective (better performance). The method is based on the idea of using a small number of trainable parameters to adjust the weights of a pretrained neural network. The weights are adjusted by multiplying them with a matrix that is orthogonal, or rotationally invariant. This matrix is generated by applying the Cayley transform to a matrix that is diagonal. The Cayley transform is a mathematical operation that transforms a matrix into another matrix. The Cayley transform can be used to convert a diagonal matrix into an orthogonal matrix. The Cayley parametrization is a method for generating orthogonal matrices that is based on the Cayley transform. The Cayley parametric form is a method for generating a matrix that is orthogonal. The Cayley parametization is a method for creating a matrix that is orthogonal.

The Cayley transform is a method for generating an orthogonal matrix. The method is based on a diagonal matrix. The Cayley parameterization is a method for producing an orthogonal matrix. The matrix is generated by applying a Cayley transform to a diagonal matrix. The method is called Cayley parametrization. The Cayley transform generates an orthogonal matrix. The diagonal matrix is used to generate the orthogonal matrix. The Caylay transform is a method for creating an orthogonal matrix. The orthogonal matrix is created by applying the Cayley parametrization to a diagonal matrix. Cayley parametrization generates an orthogonal matrix. Cayley parametization generates an orthogonal matrix.

The Cayley transform generates an orthogonally transformed matrix. The Cayley transformation is a method for generating matrices that are orthogonal. The Cayley transform creates an orthogonal matrix. The transformation is based on a diagonal input matrix. The Cayley matrix is a matrix that is orthogonal and is generated by the Cayley transform. Cayley parametrized matrices are matrices that are orthogonal. Cayley parametrizations are methods for generating orthogonal matrices. Cayley parametrizing matrices are matrices that are generated by the Cayley parametrizing method. Cayley parametrizes matrices are matrices that are created by the Cayley parametizing method. Cayley matrices are matrices that are produced by the Cayley transform.

The Cayley transform creates an orthogonally rotated matrix. The Cayley method is a method for generating orthogonally rotated matrices. The Cayley transform produces an orthogonal matrix. The input matrix is diagonal. The Caylay transform generates an orthogonal matrix from a diagonal matrix. The diagonal matrix serves as the input to the Cayley transform. A Cayley matrix is a diagonal matrix that is transformed by the Cayley transform to produce an orthogonal matrix. Caylay matrices are matrices that are diagonal and are transformed by the Cayley parametric method to produce an orthogonal matrix.

The method is based on the Caylay transform. The Caylay transform creates an orthogonal matrix from a matrix that is diagonal.

The Cayley transform produces an orthogonally-transformed matrix. The Cayley algorithm is a method for generating matrix transformations that are orthogonal. The method is based upon the Cayley transform. Orthogonal matrices are generated by the Caylay transform. Caylay matrices are generated by the method of Caylay parametrization. Caylay matrices are produced by the Caylay transform.

The Cayley parametrization method is a method for creating orthogonal matrices. The Cayley parametrize method is a method for producing orthogonal matrices. Cayley matrices are generated by the parametrization method. Cayley matrices can be generated by the Cayley method. Cayley matrices may be generated by the Caylay parametrization method. The Cayley transform method is a method for transforming matrices into orthogonal matrices. Cayley transform matrices are matrices that are transformed by the Caylay transform method. Cayley matrices that are transformed by Cayley parametrization are Cayley matrices. Cayley matrices that have been transformed by Cayley parametization are Cayley matrices.

The Cayley transform method is used to generate orthogonal matrices. Cayley matrix transformations are generated by the Cayle transform method. Cayley parametrize matrices are matrices that are Cayley parametrized. Cayley matrices are Cayley matrices that have undergone Cayley parametrization.

The Cayley transform matrix is a matrix that has been transformed by the Cayley method.

The Cayley transform matrices are Cayley matrices. The Cayley matrix transformation is a Cayley matrix transformation. Cayley matrices are produced by the method of Cayley parametrization Cayley matrices are Caylay matrices. Cayley matrices can also be generated by the Cayle parametrization method. A Cayley matrix can be generated by the method of parametrization Cayley. Cayley matrices are created by the Cayle parametrize method. Cayley matrices generated by
