----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the interim, this Order shall constitute a stay pending appeal and further order of this court.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, according to the Ninth Circuit’s September 12, 2025 panel order issued after expedited oral argument, the Order constituted a stay pending appeal
target:  a stay pending appeal
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, according to the Ninth Circuit’s September 12, 2025 panel order issued after expedited oral argument, the Order constituted

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the interim, this Order shall constitute a stay pending appeal and further order of this court.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, the Ninth Circuit's interim order stated that the stay would remain in effect pending appeal until further order of this court.
target:  further order of this court
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, the Ninth Circuit's interim order stated that the stay would remain in effect pending appeal until

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On January 20, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order entitled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.”
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, the executive order that President Trump issued on January 20, 2025 was entitled “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.”
target:  “Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program.”
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, the executive order that President Trump issued on January 20, 2025 was entitled

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President determined that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and directed that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” pending further findings.
fact: In *Pacito v. Trump*, the opinion describing President Trump's January 20, 2025 executive order suspending refugee entry under the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) states that the President invoked 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a)
target:  8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a)
probe: In *Pacito v. Trump*, the opinion describing President Trump's January 20, 2025 executive order suspending refugee entry under the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) states that the President invoked

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a), the President determined that “entry into the United States of refugees under the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)] would be detrimental to the interests of the United States” and directed that “entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended” pending further findings.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, the opinion describing Executive Order No. 14163 issued under 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a) states that the President determined that entry into the United States of refugees under the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program would be detrimental to the interests of the United States
target:  detrimental to the interests of the United States
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, the opinion describing Executive Order No. 14163 issued under 8 U.S.C. §§ 1182(f) and 1185(a) states that the President determined that entry into the United States of refugees under the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program would be

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (providing in relevant part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," before exercising the suspension authority described in 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), the President must find that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States.
target:  the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," before exercising the suspension authority described in 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), the President must find that

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) (providing in relevant part that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) describes the President's authority to suspend the entry of aliens when he finds their entry would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and under the statute the President may impose that suspension by proclamation
target:  by proclamation
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) describes the President's authority to suspend the entry of aliens when he finds their entry would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and under the statute the President may impose that suspension

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On January 24, 2025, the Department of State suspended all funding of the USRAP program, purportedly pursuant to a different executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid.”
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, according to the opinion describing the Department of State’s action under the executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid,” the Department suspended all funding of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) on January 24, 2025
target:  January 24, 2025
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, according to the opinion describing the Department of State’s action under the executive order entitled “Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid,” the Department suspended all funding of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) on

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Pending further review, this suspension included funding for domestic resettlement services for refugees admitted to the United States.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Department of State suspended all funding of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program pending further review, the suspension included domestic resettlement services.
target:  domestic resettlement services
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Department of State suspended all funding of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program pending further review, the suspension included

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The plaintiffs are refugees who were previously admitted to the United States or who have been approved for resettlement to the United States but remain outside the country and three organizations that had cooperative agreements with the State Department to provide overseas processing for persons applying for refugee status and resettlement services for refugees admitted to the United States.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, the plaintiffs included refugees who had either already been admitted to the United States or had been approved for resettlement to the United States.
target:  approved for resettlement to the United States
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, the plaintiffs included refugees who had either already been admitted to the United States or had been

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In February 2025, the plaintiffs filed suit in the Western District of Washington, alleging that Executive Order 14163’s suspension of the refugee program violated the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified in various provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and that the defunding of USRAP violated various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, plaintiffs sued in the Western District of Washington in February 2025 over Executive Order 14163 and the defunding of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, and their complaint alleged that Executive Order 14163’s suspension of the refugee program violated the Refugee Act of 1980
target:  the Refugee Act of 1980
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, plaintiffs sued in the Western District of Washington in February 2025 over Executive Order 14163 and the defunding of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, and their complaint alleged that Executive Order 14163’s suspension of the refugee program violated

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In February 2025, the plaintiffs filed suit in the Western District of Washington, alleging that Executive Order 14163’s suspension of the refugee program violated the Refugee Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified in various provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.), and that the defunding of USRAP violated various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq.
fact: In "Pacito v. Trump," where plaintiffs filed suit in the Western District of Washington in February 2025 challenging both Executive Order 14163 and the suspension of funding for the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, the opinion states that the defunding of USRAP allegedly violated various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq.
target:  various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq.
probe: In "Pacito v. Trump," where plaintiffs filed suit in the Western District of Washington in February 2025 challenging both Executive Order 14163 and the suspension of funding for the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, the opinion states that the defunding of USRAP allegedly violated

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (describing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," the court cited the Refugee Act as "a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons" in Negusie v. Holder
target:  Negusie v. Holder
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," the court cited the Refugee Act as "a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons" in

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See Negusie v. Holder, 555 U.S. 511, 520 (2009) (describing the Refugee Act as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”).
fact: In Negusie v. Holder, the Refugee Act of 1980 was described as “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”
target:  “a general rule for the ongoing treatment of all refugees and displaced persons”
probe: In Negusie v. Holder, the Refugee Act of 1980 was described as

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On February 26, the government terminated every cooperative agreement to provide reception and placement services for refugees in the United States and all but one of the cooperative agreements to provide USRAP processing support abroad.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Western District of Washington orally issued a preliminary injunction in February 2025, the government terminated every cooperative agreement to provide reception and placement services for refugees in the United States
target:  reception and placement services for refugees in the United States
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Western District of Washington orally issued a preliminary injunction in February 2025, the government terminated every cooperative agreement to provide

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On February 26, the government terminated every cooperative agreement to provide reception and placement services for refugees in the United States and all but one of the cooperative agreements to provide USRAP processing support abroad.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Western District of Washington orally issued a preliminary injunction, the government on February 26 terminated all but one of the cooperative agreements operating outside the United States, which provided USRAP processing support abroad.
target:  USRAP processing support abroad.
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Western District of Washington orally issued a preliminary injunction, the government on February 26 terminated all but one of the cooperative agreements operating outside the United States, which provided

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On February 28, the district court issued a written order to define the scope of the February 25 preliminary injunction, specifying that it also prohibits the suspension of USRAP funding.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Western District of Washington issued a February 25 preliminary injunction and then entered a written order on February 28 defining its scope, the court specified that the injunction also prohibits the suspension of USRAP funding
target:  the suspension of USRAP funding
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Western District of Washington issued a February 25 preliminary injunction and then entered a written order on February 28 defining its scope, the court specified that the injunction also prohibits

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On February 28, the district court issued a written order to define the scope of the February 25 preliminary injunction, specifying that it also prohibits the suspension of USRAP funding.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, the Western District of Washington issued a written order on February 28, 2025, clarifying that the injunction also prohibited the suspension of USRAP funding, and that order was issued to define the scope of the February 25 preliminary injunction.
target:  the February 25 preliminary injunction
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, the Western District of Washington issued a written order on February 28, 2025, clarifying that the injunction also prohibited the suspension of USRAP funding, and that order was issued to define the scope of

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government sought a stay pending appeal of the February 28 district court order, which a motions panel of this court granted in part on March 25.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Western District of Washington issued its February 28, 2025 order defining the scope of the preliminary injunction, the government sought a stay pending appeal
target:  a stay pending appeal
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after the Western District of Washington issued its February 28, 2025 order defining the scope of the preliminary injunction, the government sought

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Quoting Trump v. Hawaii, we observed that the authority under which the President issued Executive Order No. 14163, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), “‘exudes deference’ to the President and ‘vests [him] with ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].’” Order of March 25, 2025, at 2 (quoting 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018)).
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, when quoting Trump v. Hawaii in addressing the President's authority under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) for Executive Order No. 14163, the court said that statute vests the President with authority to impose entry restrictions beyond those elsewhere enumerated in the Immigration and Nationality Act, ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].
target:  ample power to impose entry restrictions in addition to those elsewhere enumerated in the [Immigration and Nationality Act].
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, when quoting Trump v. Hawaii in addressing the President's authority under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) for Executive Order No. 14163, the court said that statute vests the President with authority to impose entry restrictions beyond those elsewhere enumerated in the Immigration and Nationality Act,

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We denied the motion for a stay, however, “to the extent the district court’s preliminary injunction order applies to individuals who were conditionally approved for refugee status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.” Id. at 1.
fact: In "Pacito v. Trump," the court denied the government’s motion for a stay only insofar as the district court’s preliminary injunction applied to individuals who had been conditionally approved for refugee status by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services before January 20, 2025.
target:  January 20, 2025
probe: In "Pacito v. Trump," the court denied the government’s motion for a stay only insofar as the district court’s preliminary injunction applied to individuals who had been conditionally approved for refugee status by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services before

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We issued two additional orders clarifying this “limited carveout from the stay.” Order of May 9, 2025, at 1; Order of April 21, 2025.
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," after the court denied a stay as to individuals who had been conditionally approved for refugee status before January 20, 2025, the court issued two additional orders
target:  two additional orders
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," after the court denied a stay as to individuals who had been conditionally approved for refugee status before January 20, 2025, the court issued

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The motions panel directed full briefing and ordered the Clerk of Court to place the appeal on the next available calendar.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after the government sought a stay pending appeal and the motions panel issued orders clarifying a limited carveout from the stay, the motions panel directed full briefing.
target:  full briefing
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after the government sought a stay pending appeal and the motions panel issued orders clarifying a limited carveout from the stay, the motions panel directed

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The motions panel directed full briefing and ordered the Clerk of Court to place the appeal on the next available calendar.
fact: In "Pacito v. Trump," after partially ruling on the government's stay request pending appeal, the motions panel ordered the Clerk of Court to place the appeal on the next available calendar
target:  the next available calendar
probe: In "Pacito v. Trump," after partially ruling on the government's stay request pending appeal, the motions panel ordered the Clerk of Court to place the appeal on

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following briefing but before argument scheduled for September 19, 2025, the district court, on July 14, issued an order to establish a framework for enforcing the limited carveout and appointing a magistrate judge to oversee the framework.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after briefing in the appeal but before the September 19, 2025 argument, the district court’s July 14 order concerning the motions panel’s limited carveout from the stay established a framework for enforcing the limited carveout.
target:  a framework for enforcing the limited carveout
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after briefing in the appeal but before the September 19, 2025 argument, the district court’s July 14 order concerning the motions panel’s limited carveout from the stay established

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On July 18, 2025, we issued an administrative stay of the district court’s July 14 enforcement order.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after the district court issued a July 14, 2025 order establishing a framework to enforce the limited carveout from the stay, the appellate court on July 18, 2025 issued, with respect to that July 14 enforcement order, an administrative stay
target:  an administrative stay
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after the district court issued a July 14, 2025 order establishing a framework to enforce the limited carveout from the stay, the appellate court on July 18, 2025 issued, with respect to that July 14 enforcement order,

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the interim, we now vacate our administrative stay of July 18 and our stay of March 25, as amended on April 21 and May 9.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after receiving briefing and hearing oral argument, the court stated that it was vacating an earlier administrative stay of July 18
target:  July 18
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after receiving briefing and hearing oral argument, the court stated that it was vacating an earlier administrative stay of

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We consider four factors: (1) Whether the stay applicant has made a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay; (3) whether issuance of the stay will substantially injure the other parties interested in the proceeding; and (4) where the public interest lies. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009).
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," when applying the standards for issuing a stay pending appeal, the court considers four factors:
target:  four factors:
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," when applying the standards for issuing a stay pending appeal, the court considers

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We consider four factors: (1) Whether the stay applicant has made a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay; (3) whether issuance of the stay will substantially injure the other parties interested in the proceeding; and (4) where the public interest lies. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009).
fact: According to Nken v. Holder, under the first factor of the four-factor test for issuing a stay pending appeal, the stay applicant must make a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the merits
target:  a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the merits
probe: According to Nken v. Holder, under the first factor of the four-factor test for issuing a stay pending appeal, the stay applicant must make

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government is likely to prevail on plaintiffs’ challenge to the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and we cannot engage in “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686.
fact: In its discussion of the stay factors pending appeal in Pacito v. Trump, the court said the government is likely to prevail on plaintiffs’ challenge to the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions
target:  plaintiffs’ challenge to the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions
probe: In its discussion of the stay factors pending appeal in Pacito v. Trump, the court said the government is likely to prevail on

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The government is likely to prevail on plaintiffs’ challenge to the validity of Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, and we cannot engage in “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.” Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 686.
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," when assessing the government’s likelihood of success on the merits of the plaintiffs’ challenge to Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, the court said it could not engage in “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.”
target:  “a searching inquiry into the persuasiveness of the President’s justifications.”
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," when assessing the government’s likelihood of success on the merits of the plaintiffs’ challenge to Executive Order No. 14163’s suspension of refugee admissions, the court said it could not engage in

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “The sole prerequisite set forth in § 1182(f) is that the President ‘find[]’ that the entry of the covered aliens ‘would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.’ The President has undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here.” Id. at 685.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, when discussing the standard under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) for the President’s suspension of refugee admissions in Executive Order No. 14163, the court stated that the President had undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here
target:  undoubtedly fulfilled that requirement here
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, when discussing the standard under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) for the President’s suspension of refugee admissions in Executive Order No. 14163, the court stated that the President had

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to suspend the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f).
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," while discussing the government's likelihood of success on the merits under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), the quoted authority said the Executive Order does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,”
target:  any textual limit on the President’s authority,”
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," while discussing the government's likelihood of success on the merits under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f), the quoted authority said the Executive Order does not exceed

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “[T]he language of § 1182(f) is clear, and the [Executive Order] does not exceed any textual limit on the President’s authority,” id. at 688, to suspend the “entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States,” U.S.C. § 1182(f).
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," when discussing the President’s authority under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) in connection with the Executive Order suspending refugee admissions, the statute permits the President to suspend the entry of . . . any class of aliens into the United States
target:  any class of aliens into the United States
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," when discussing the President’s authority under 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) in connection with the Executive Order suspending refugee admissions, the statute permits the President to suspend the entry of . . .

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The remaining factors, touching upon both domestic and foreign interests of the United States, as determined by the “broad discretion” conferred on the President, Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, favor the United States as well.
fact: According to the opinion in Pacito v. Trump, when applying the stay factors under Nken v. Holder in the appeal over Executive Order No. 14163, the court said the remaining factors were touching upon both domestic and foreign interests of the United States.
target:  touching upon both domestic and foreign interests of the United States
probe: According to the opinion in Pacito v. Trump, when applying the stay factors under Nken v. Holder in the appeal over Executive Order No. 14163, the court said the remaining factors were

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The remaining factors, touching upon both domestic and foreign interests of the United States, as determined by the “broad discretion” conferred on the President, Hawaii, 585 U.S. at 683–84, favor the United States as well.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, when applying the stay factors, the court said the remaining factors involved the domestic and foreign interests of the United States as determined by the discretion conferred on the President, which it described as broad discretion.
target:  broad discretion
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, when applying the stay factors, the court said the remaining factors involved the domestic and foreign interests of the United States as determined by the discretion conferred on the President, which it described as

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For reasons to be explained in full in an opinion to follow, however, the government is not likely to prevail on at least one of plaintiffs’ challenges under the APA.
fact: According to the opinion, in Pacito v. Trump, when the court addressed the government's request for a stay pending appeal and the plaintiffs' APA claims, the government was not likely to prevail on at least one of plaintiffs’ challenges under the APA.
target:  at least one of plaintiffs’ challenges under the APA.
probe: According to the opinion, in Pacito v. Trump, when the court addressed the government's request for a stay pending appeal and the plaintiffs' APA claims, the government was not likely to prevail on

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government must provide certain reception and placement services to refugees after their admission into the United States.
fact: In the case "Pacito v. Trump," in the opinion addressing a stay pending appeal, the statute at issue is 8 U.S.C. § 1522
target:  8 U.S.C. § 1522
probe: In the case "Pacito v. Trump," in the opinion addressing a stay pending appeal, the statute at issue is

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the government must provide certain reception and placement services to refugees after their admission into the United States.
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," 8 U.S.C. § 1522 requires the government to provide refugees, after they are admitted into the United States, certain reception and placement services
target:  certain reception and placement services
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," 8 U.S.C. § 1522 requires the government to provide refugees, after they are admitted into the United States,

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By statute, these resettlement services—often referred to as “reception and placement” services—may be provided through the use of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with “public or private nonprofit agencies.” U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii).
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, the court discussed resettlement services authorized by 8 U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii), often referred to as “reception and placement” services.
target:  “reception and placement” services
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, the court discussed resettlement services authorized by 8 U.S.C. § 1522(b)(1)(A)(ii), often referred to as

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The United States has historically entered into cooperative agreements with various resettlement organizations to provide such services.
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," in discussing refugee reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the United States has historically entered into cooperative agreements with various resettlement organizations to provide such services.
target:  various resettlement organizations to provide such services.
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," in discussing refugee reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, the United States has historically entered into cooperative agreements with

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The organizational plaintiffs are three such organizations with which the Department of State has had cooperative agreements.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, in discussing refugee resettlement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522 and the United States’ historical use of cooperative agreements with resettlement organizations, the court noted that the Department of State has had cooperative agreements with three such organizations
target:  three such organizations
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, in discussing refugee resettlement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522 and the United States’ historical use of cooperative agreements with resettlement organizations, the court noted that the Department of State has had cooperative agreements with

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The organizational plaintiffs are three such organizations with which the Department of State has had cooperative agreements.
fact: In the case "Pacito v. Trump," the opinion explains that refugee reception and placement services may be provided through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with public or private nonprofit agencies under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, and the department that had cooperative agreements with the organizational plaintiffs was the Department of State
target:  the Department of State
probe: In the case "Pacito v. Trump," the opinion explains that refugee reception and placement services may be provided through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with public or private nonprofit agencies under 8 U.S.C. § 1522, and the department that had cooperative agreements with the organizational plaintiffs was

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Acknowledging such termination of funding for resettlement services, the government advised the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after the State Department had terminated funding for refugee resettlement services, the government told the district court that it was actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency to provide reception and placement services on March 10, 2025
target:  on March 10, 2025
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after the State Department had terminated funding for refugee resettlement services, the government told the district court that it was actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency to provide reception and placement services

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Acknowledging such termination of funding for resettlement services, the government advised the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was “actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.” Dist. Ct. Dkt. 62, at 5.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after acknowledging the termination of funding for resettlement services, the government told the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was actively preparing a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services.
target:  a request for proposals for a new resettlement agency that could provide reception and placement services
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after acknowledging the termination of funding for resettlement services, the government told the district court on March 10, 2025, that it was actively preparing

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Such services shall include the usual and customary services that have been afforded such refugees under the prior cooperative agreements.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, the court directed the government to reinstate cooperative agreements necessary to provide the reception and placement services required by 8 U.S.C. § 1522 to admitted refugees, and according to that directive, such services must include the usual and customary services
target:  the usual and customary services
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, the court directed the government to reinstate cooperative agreements necessary to provide the reception and placement services required by 8 U.S.C. § 1522 to admitted refugees, and according to that directive, such services must include

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Such services shall include the usual and customary services that have been afforded such refugees under the prior cooperative agreements.
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," after directing the government to reinstate cooperative agreements necessary to provide reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522 to admitted refugees, the court stated that those refugees had previously received the usual and customary services under the prior cooperative agreements.
target:  the prior cooperative agreements
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," after directing the government to reinstate cooperative agreements necessary to provide reception and placement services under 8 U.S.C. § 1522 to admitted refugees, the court stated that those refugees had previously received the usual and customary services under

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: My colleagues and I agree that the President has the authority to impose a moratorium on refugee admissions and would thus stay the district court’s injunction on that issue.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, in Judge Lee’s separate opinion on whether the district court’s injunction should be stayed, he said the President has the authority to impose a moratorium on refugee admissions
target:  a moratorium on refugee admissions
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, in Judge Lee’s separate opinion on whether the district court’s injunction should be stayed, he said the President has the authority to impose

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: My colleagues and I agree that the President has the authority to impose a moratorium on refugee admissions and would thus stay the district court’s injunction on that issue.
fact: In Judge Lee’s concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part opinion in Pacito v. Trump, he stated that he and his colleagues agreed the President had authority to impose a moratorium on refugee admissions and would thus stay the district court’s injunction on that issue.
target:  would thus stay the district court’s injunction on that issue.
probe: In Judge Lee’s concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part opinion in Pacito v. Trump, he stated that he and his colleagues agreed the President had authority to impose a moratorium on refugee admissions and

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But we depart on whether the federal government has a legal duty to provide services to those who were recently admitted before the suspension went into effect.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, after agreeing that the President had authority to impose a moratorium on refugee admissions and that the district court’s injunction on admissions should be stayed, Judge Lee said he and the majority departed on the issue of whether the federal government has a legal duty to provide services to those who were recently admitted before the suspension went into effect.
target:  whether the federal government has a legal duty to provide services to those who were recently admitted before the suspension went into effect.
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, after agreeing that the President had authority to impose a moratorium on refugee admissions and that the district court’s injunction on admissions should be stayed, Judge Lee said he and the majority departed on the issue of

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But we depart on whether the federal government has a legal duty to provide services to those who were recently admitted before the suspension went into effect.
fact: In Judge Lee’s opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part from the order in Pacito v. Trump addressing a stay of the district court’s injunctions, the federal government might have a legal duty to provide services to those who were recently admitted before the suspension went into effect.
target:  those who were recently admitted before the suspension went into effect.
probe: In Judge Lee’s opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part from the order in Pacito v. Trump addressing a stay of the district court’s injunctions, the federal government might have a legal duty to provide services to

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: AUTHORIZATION, Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (defining it as “permission to do something” or the “official document granting such permission”).
fact: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," Judge Lee cited Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) while arguing that 8 U.S.C. § 1522 is permissive rather than mandatory, and the dictionary definition described authorization as “permission to do something”
target:  “permission to do something”
probe: According to the opinion in "Pacito v. Trump," Judge Lee cited Black's Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) while arguing that 8 U.S.C. § 1522 is permissive rather than mandatory, and the dictionary definition described authorization as

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In arguing that Section 1522 imposes mandatory funding, my colleagues look to §1522(a)—titled “Conditions and consideration”—which uses the word “shall” and the phrase “to the extent of available appropriations.”
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, Judge Lee wrote separately that his colleagues relied on a subsection of § 1522 in arguing that § 1522 imposes mandatory funding, namely §1522(a)—titled “Conditions and consideration”
target:  §1522(a)—titled “Conditions and consideration”
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, Judge Lee wrote separately that his colleagues relied on a subsection of § 1522 in arguing that § 1522 imposes mandatory funding, namely

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But that language is qualified by the immediately preceding phrase: “In providing assistance under this section [i.e., the discretionary funding provisions under §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ”
fact: According to Judge Lee’s argument in Pacito v. Trump, the word "shall" in 8 U.S.C. § 1522(a) is limited by the immediately preceding phrase “In providing assistance under this section [i.e., the discretionary funding provisions under §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ”.
target:  “In providing assistance under this section [i.e., the discretionary funding provisions under §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ”
probe: According to Judge Lee’s argument in Pacito v. Trump, the word "shall" in 8 U.S.C. § 1522(a) is limited by the immediately preceding phrase

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: But that language is qualified by the immediately preceding phrase: “In providing assistance under this section [i.e., the discretionary funding provisions under §1522(b)-(e)]. . . ”
fact: According to Judge Lee’s concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part opinion in Pacito v. Trump, when he quotes the phrase “In providing assistance under this section” from 8 U.S.C. § 1522(a), the bracketed explanation says “this section” refers to the discretionary funding provisions under §1522(b)-(e)
target:  the discretionary funding provisions under §1522(b)-(e)
probe: According to Judge Lee’s concurring-in-part and dissenting-in-part opinion in Pacito v. Trump, when he quotes the phrase “In providing assistance under this section” from 8 U.S.C. § 1522(a), the bracketed explanation says “this section” refers to

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The metes and bounds of the programs are up to executive discretion—hardly a congressional mandate.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, Judge Lee, concurring in part and dissenting in part, said that 8 U.S.C. § 1522 does not require the federal government to fund refugee services and that, because the programs were “hardly a congressional mandate,” the metes and bounds of those programs are up to executive discretion
target:  executive discretion
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, Judge Lee, concurring in part and dissenting in part, said that 8 U.S.C. § 1522 does not require the federal government to fund refugee services and that, because the programs were “hardly a congressional mandate,” the metes and bounds of those programs are up to

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In my view, Section 1522 authorizes the executive branch to craft programs under its discretion so long as appropriations flow.
fact: In Pacito v. Trump, Judge Lee, concurring in part and dissenting in part, interpreted 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as permissive rather than mandatory and concluded that Section 1522 authorizes the executive branch
target:  the executive branch
probe: In Pacito v. Trump, Judge Lee, concurring in part and dissenting in part, interpreted 8 U.S.C. § 1522 as permissive rather than mandatory and concluded that Section 1522 authorizes

