--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a block-diagonal finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's parameters to reduce the number of parameters while maintaining the same accuracy. This paper introduces a new BOFT variant, called BOFT-2, which is a block-diagonal variant of BOFT. The main contribution of this paper is to show that BOFT-2 can achieve the same accuracy as OFT, but with fewer parameters. The paper also presents a new BOFT variant called BOFT-3, which is a block diagonal variant of BOFT-2. The main contribution of BOFT-3 is to show that BO FT-3 can achieve the same accuracy of OFT, but with even fewer parameters. The paper presents a comprehensive analysis of BOFT-2 and BOFT-3, including a detailed comparison of their performance on various datasets and models. The paper also presents an empirical study of BOFT-2, BOFT-3, and OFT, which shows that BOFT-2 and OFT are more efficient than BOFT-3. Finally, the paper presents a comprehensive analysis and comparison of BOFT-2 with other finetuning methods, including BOFT-1, BOFT-2, and OFT. The paper concludes with a discussion of the future directions of this research.

The paper "Parameter-Efficiency in Finetuning Large Models" presents a new method for finetuning large models, called BOFT. BOFT is a block-diagonal method that uses a factorized representation of the model's parameters. The paper presents an analysis of BOFT, showing that it can achieve the same accuracy with fewer parameters than OFT. The paper also presents empirical results showing that BOFT is more efficient than OFT. The main contribution of the paper is to show that the BOFT method can achieve the same accuracy while using fewer parameters than OFT.

The paper "Parameter-efficient Finetuning of Large Models" presents a novel method for finetuning deep neural networks, called BOFT. The paper presents an empirical study of the BOFT method, showing that it can be used to finetune large models with fewer parameters than OFFT. The paper also presents theoretical analysis of the BOFT method. The main contribution of these papers is to show that BOFF can be used to finitely train large models with fewer parameters.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Finetuning of Large Neural Networks" presents a novel method of finetuning large neural networks, called BOFF. The paper presents an experimental study of the BOFF method, showing that it is able to finetune large neural networks with fewer parameters than OFTF. The paper also presents some theoretical analysis of the BOFF method. The main contribution is to show that BOF can be used to finitize large neural networks with fewer parameter than OFTF.

The paper "Parameter Efficiency in Finetuning Large Neural Networks" presents an empirical study of finetuning large models using the BOFT method. It shows that BOFT can be used to finitetrain large models with fewer parameters. The main contribution of

The paper "Parameter-Efficent Finetuning of Large Model" presents a novel method to finetune large deep neural networks, called Orthogonal Butterfly (BOB). The paper presents an empirical analysis of BOB, showing that it can finetune large models using fewer parameters than OFFT and OFT. The main contributions of the paper are to show that BOB can be used to finite train large models with fewer parameter than OFFT and OFFT. The paper presents a detailed analysis of BOB, including a comparison with OFT and OFT. The analysis shows that BOB can be more efficient than OFT and OFT.

The paper presents a new method for training large neural networks, called Ortho-Butterfly (OBF). The paper presents an analysis and comparison of OBF with OFT and OFFT. The main contribution is that OBF can be used to finete train large models with fewer resources than OFT and OFFT.

The paper presents a novel method for training large neural network, called Orthogonal Butterfly Finetuning (OBF). The method is based on the use of a factorization of the parameters of the model. The paper presents an evaluation of the method, showing that it achieves the same accuracy as OFFT, but with fewer parameters.

The Paper "Parameter-Efficient Finetuning of Large Deep Neural Networks" presents a new method of finetuning deep neural network, called Ortho-Buttersfly (OBF). It is based on the use a factorization of the parameter of the model. The method is evaluated on a variety of datasets and models, and it is shown that it achieves the same performance as OFT, but uses fewer parameters.

The paper presents a method for finetuning neural networks, called Orthogonally Finetuned (OFT). The method is based upon the use of a factorized representation of parameters. The paper presents empirical results showing that OFT
