--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a variant of OFT that uses a factorization of the weight matrix, which is a product of orthogonal matrices. This factorization is achieved by applying a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix to the weight matrix. The block-diagonal orthogonal matrix is then applied to the weight matrix. This process is repeated until the weight matrix is reduced to a block-diagonal form. The BOFT method is more efficient than OFT in terms of parameter efficiency. The BOFT method can be used to adapt any model, including those with a large number of parameters. The BOFT method has been shown to improve the performance of the model on various tasks, including image classification, object detection, and text generation. The BOFT method also has the advantage of being able to adapt models with a large number of layers. In this paper, we present a new method for adapting large models called Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Butterfly (PEBOFT). The PEBOFT method is based on the BOFT method, but it uses a different factorization of the weight matrices. The PEBOFT method uses a block-diagonal orthogonal factorization of the weight, which is a product matrix of orthogonal matrices. The PEBO FT method is more efficient than the BOFT method in terms of parameter efficiency, and it can be used to adapt models with a larger number of parameters. The PEBOFT is a general method for adapting large models. It can be used to adapt both finetuned and pretrained models. The PEBOFT can be used to adapt finetuned models with a large number or layers, and it can also be used to adapt pretrained models with a large number layers. The PEBOFT has been shown to improve performance on various tasks, including text generation, image classification, and object detection. The PEBOFT also has the advantage of adapting models with a large number layer. In this paper, the PEBOFT method is presented and compared with the BOFT method. The PEBOFT and BOFT methods are evaluated on a variety of tasks, including image classification and object detection. The results show that the PEBOFT method outperforms the BOFT method in most cases. The PEBOFT achieves better performance than the BOFT method on the CIFAR-10 dataset, while the BOFT method achieves better performance than the PEBOFT method on the ImageNet dataset. The PEBOFT outperforms the BOFF method on the CIFAR10 dataset, while the PEBOFT method achieves better performance on the ImageNet dataset.

The PEBOFT method is a general method for adapt large models. It can adapt both finetuned models with large number of layers, and pretrained models with large number layers. The method has been shown to perform well on various tasks, including Text Generation, Image Classification, and Object Detection. The method has the advantage of adapting large models with a large number number of layers. In addition, the method can be used to finetune pretrained models with a large amount of parameters. The method is implemented using PyTorch and is available at https://github.com/leonghaochen/PEBOFT.

Introduction
Large models have become increasingly popular in recent years due to their superior performance on various tasks. However, training large models can be computationally expensive and time-consuming. To address this issue, many methods have been proposed to reduce the computational cost of training large models. One such method is parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT), which is a technique for finetuning large models by reducing the number of parameters. PEFT is a method that uses a finetuning strategy to adapt a pretrained model to a new task. The finetuning strategy is typically based on a small set of weights that are updated during training. The updated weights are then applied to the original model to produce a new model that is trained on the new task. PEFT has been shown to be effective in improving the performance of large models on various tasks, including object detection, image classification, and text generation.
One limitation of PEFT is that it requires a small set of weights to be updated during training. This means that the number of parameters in the updated weights must be less than the original model. This can be a challenge for models with a large number parameters, such as ResNet-50. To address this limitation, a number of methods have been proposed to adapt large models using fewer parameters. One such method is Parameter-Efficient Orthogonally Finetuning (PEOF), which is a variant of PEFT that uses a factorization to reduce the number of parameters in a weight matrix. The factorization is achieved by using a block-diagonal orthogonal transformation to the weight matrix. By applying a block-diagonal transformation to the weight matrix, the number of parameters in each block can be reduced. This results in a smaller total number of parameters, which can be beneficial for models with a large parameter count.
Another method for adapting large models is Parameter-Efficient Block-Diagonal Orthogonal Finetuning, which is a variant of the
