--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is an efficient parameterization of orthogonal matrices that enables the parameter efficiency of BOFT to scale with the square of the block size unlike the parameter efficiency of OFT and its block-diagonal approaches, which only scales with the product of the block size. BOFT achieves stronger parameter efficiency than OFT and its block diagonal approaches while providing identical convergence and generalization properties. To support this claim, the authors conduct a comprehensive empirical study that includes finetuning LLMs up to 7B scales with a focus on downstream performance. Moreover, they introduce a new finetuning evaluation benchmark called FLAN v2 that measures generalization performance across a diverse set of tasks. BOFT also has some practical advantages over OFT, such as faster finetuning runtime and lower memory consumption. BOFT achieves better parameter efficiency than OFT both empirically and theoretically. The theoretical analysis reveals that the parameter efficiency of BOft scales with the square of the blocking factor, while the parameter efficiency of OFt and its block-diagonal variants only scales with the product the blocking factor. In other words, BOFT achieves a stronger parameter efficiency as the blocking factor increases. The authors prove this statement for both full finetuning and incremental finetuning (i.e., warm starting from pretrained weights). Moreover, they show that all orthogonal matrices generated by BOFT can be obtained by multiplying block-diagonal orthogonal matrices used in OFT and its blockdiagonal variants. Therefore, BOFT is more expressive than OFT and its blocking variants. Despite this increased expressivity, BOFT still yields identical convergence and generalization performance to OFT. The authors further demonstrate that BOFT yields better parameter efficiency than OFt not only for full finetuning but also for incremental finetuning. Moreover, they show that BOFT is more parameter efficient than OFT, even when OFT is used as a block-diagonal approach with a very small diagonal block size. To support their claims, the authors conduct a thorough empirical study that includes finetting 3B to 7B LLMs and evaluating the resulting models on a benchmark dataset including FLAN v2, BigBench, RAFT, and Vicuna. The results show that BOFT yields better performance than OFT and the block-diagonal approaches, even when the latter are used with a very small diagonal blocking size. In addition to the comprehensive study of BOFT's performance, the paper also introduces some extensions and variations of BOFT. For example, the authors propose a variant called Group BOFT that increases parameter efficiency by factoring the orthogonal matrix into a product of multiple orthogonal matrices, each of which only transforms a subset of the neurons. The group assignment for different neurons is determined by their corresponding hidden layer such that neurons in the same hidden layer are transformed by the same orthogonal matrix. This approach yields better parameter efficiency than BOFT and OFT. Another variant called Block-BOFT combines the parameter efficiency of BO FT and block-diagonal OFT by using a block-diagonal orthogonal matrix in the orthogonal butterfly structure. This variant yields better parameter efficiency than both BOFT and block-diagonal OF T while still yielding the same convergence and generalization performance as BOFT. The paper also includes a variant called LoRA BOFT that improves parameter efficiency for incremental finetuning by using a block-diagona l orthogonal matrix with a small diagonal block size. The paper also includes an analysis of the runtime and memory consumption of BOFT, OFT, and their block-diagonal variants. The results show that the runtime and memory consumption for BOFT and OFT are comparable for full finetuning, but BOFT is faster and consumes less memory for incremental finetuning, as the number of trainable parameters becomes smaller as the blocking factor increases for BOFT, while it remains the same for OFT. The memory consumption for BOFT grows with the square of the blo ck size, while it grows with the product of the blocking factor for OFT and its block- diagonal variants. The results show the advantages of BOFT in terms of runtime and memory consumption become more significant as the blocking factor increases, while the advantages in terms of parameter efficiency become stronger as the diagonal block size decreases. To summarize, the paper proposes a novel and efficient parameterization of orthogonal matrice s called Orthogonal Butterfly that improves parameter efficiency over standard Orthogonal Fineteuning and its block-diagonal approache s. BOFT yields stronger parameter efficiency than OF T and its block-diagonal ap proaches while providing identical convergence and gener alization properties. The paper provides a theoretical analysis that supports the claim that BOFT is more efficient than OFT and its blo ck-diagonal variants. Moreover, the paper provides a comprehensive empirical study that shows BOFT improves parameter efficiency over OFT and its block-d iagonal variants. The results also show that BOFT yields stronger performance than OFT and its bloc k-diagonal variants. Furthermore, the paper introduces two extensions and variations of BO FT called Group BOFT and Block-BOFT that yield even better parameter efficiency than BO FT. The
