----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under the Copyright Act, we consider the following non-exclusive factors in determining whether fair use has been established: “(1) the purpose and character of the use . . . ; (2) the nature of the copyrighted work; (3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used . . . ; and (4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work.” U.S.C. § 107.
fact: In "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when the court listed the four non-exclusive fair use factors under the Copyright Act, one factor was "the purpose and character of the use".
target: the purpose and character of the use

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under the Copyright Act, we consider the following non-exclusive factors in determining whether fair use has been established: “(1) the purpose and character of the use . . . ; (2) the nature of the copyrighted work; (3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used . . . ; and (4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work.” U.S.C. § 107.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel", the Copyright Act lists four non-exclusive fair use factors under 17 U.S.C. § 107, and one of them is "the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work".
target: the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In any event, Santos’s complaint contradicts any claim of a purpose on the Defendants’ part to “supplant” Santos’s “commercially valuable right” in the videos.
fact: According to the opinion in "George Santos v. James C. Kimmel," when Santos argued that Kimmel’s use of the videos was not in good faith, the court said Santos’s complaint did not support an allegation that the Defendants intended to supplant a “commercially valuable right”.
target: commercially valuable right

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And it is clear on the face of Santos’s complaint that Santos has not suffered market harm within the meaning of the fourth fair use factor because “[w]e ask not whether the second work would damage the market for the first (by, for example, devaluing it through parody or criticism), but whether it usurps the market for the first by offering a competing substitute.”
fact: In George Santos v. James C. Kimmel, when discussing the fourth fair use factor, the court explained that market harm is not shown merely because the second work could devalue the first through parody or criticism; to usurp the market for the first work, the second work must offer "a competing substitute".
target: a competing substitute

