--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is commonly used in computer networks to reduce the number of interconnects between nodes. BOFT is a straightforward extension of OFT, which is a widely used finetuning technique. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based directly on the butterfly structure, a well-known network topology that reduces the number of interconnections between nodes. BOFT has a parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of LoRA, while it is more adaptable and has a higher capacity. BOFT is a general-purpose adaptation technique that can be used with any neural network architecture. BOFT is a simple and effective approach for adapting large models to downstream tasks. The butterfly structure is used to construct a sparse matrix, which is then used to generate a projection matrix. The projection matrix is used to update the weights of the model. The butterfly structure is a well-known network topology used to reduce the number of connections between nodes. BOFT can be used to finetune any neural network architecture. The butterfly structure is employed to create a sparse matrix, which in turn is used to generate a projection. The projection matrix is then used to update the weights in the model. The butterfly architecture is a well-known network structure that is used to reduce the number connections between nodes. BOft can be used to finitetune any neural network arhitecture. The butterfly structure is utilized to create a sparse matrix that is then used to generate the projection matrix. The projection is then used to update weights in the model. BOFT is a generic adaptation technique that can be applied to any neural network architecture. In the butterfly structure, a sparse matrix is used to generate a dense projection matrix, which is then utilized to finetune the weights of the model.

The authors of this paper have developed a new finetuning technique called BOFT, which is parameter-efficient and can be used to adapt large models to downstream tasks.

The authors of this work have developed a new finituning technique called BOFT that is parameter-efficient and can adapt large models to downstream applications.

The authors of this study have developed a new finitetuning technique called BOFT which is parameter-efficient and is able to adapt large models to downstrean tasks.

The authors of the paper have developed a new technique called BOFT, that is parameter-efficient and is capable of adapting large models to downstream applications.<|endoftext|>
