--- PROMPT ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is essentially

--- GENERATION ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is essentially a reward model-free reinforcement learning (RL) method for language model fine-tuning. 
It takes an unsupervised language model and a set of preference labels, and optimizes the language model to maximize the reward derived from the preference labels while staying within a given loss budget.
This reward model is learned by maximizing the likelihood of the preference labels under the language model's distribution, which is equivalent to maximizing the likelihood of the labels under the language model’s distribution, but with the additional constraint that the language model must be identical to the target language model.
This optimization problem can be solved exactly, yielding a policy that maximizes the reward while staying within the loss budget.

\section{Related Work}
Large-scale unsupervised language modeling has been a major focus of research in recent years, with the advent of GPT-NB and OpenAI's Large models providing access to unprecedented amounts of text data.
These models have demonstrated impressive capabilities, including the ability to generate fluent human-like text on a wide range of topics \citep{brown2020language}, but are also known to exhibit undesirable behaviors such as toxicity \citep{tay2022reinforcement}, misinformation \citep{wang2022learning}, and even conspiracy theories \citep{wei2022training}.
These issues arise because the training data used to develop these models is drawn from the Internet, which contains a mix of high-quality content and low-quality content, and the language models are trained to maximize the likelihood of the high-quality data while minimizing the likelihood of the low-quality data.
This results in the language model being able to produce high-quality output on the training set, but having difficulty producing high-quality output on test sets that are not similar to the training set.

A number of approaches have been proposed to address these issues, including techniques that fine-tune the language model on labeled data \citep{lester2020finetuning, liu2021training, bai2021training, bengio2022training, bai2022training2, bai2022language}, techniques that use reinforcement learning to train a separate reward model from the language model and fine-tune the language
model to maximize the reward \citep{ziegler2021reinforcement, bai2022learning, bai2022reinforcement, bengio2023training}, and techniques that combine the language model with a separate critic to train a policy that balances the two objectives \citep{ziegliger2021reinforcement,dumoulin2022training,wei2022training}.
While these methods generally improve the quality of the language model, they require access to labeled data, which is often not available for large-scale unsupervised models.

One approach to obtaining steerability without access to labeled data is to use reinforcement learning to train an RLHF policy \citep{ziegelberg2021reinforcement}, which takes the form of a policy gradient optimization problem where the reward function is estimated from human preferences.
This method has been shown to yield language models that are more aligned with human preferences than those trained with only unsupervised methods, but it requires collecting a large number of human preferences, which can be time-consuming and expensive.
Additionally, the RLHF policy must be fine-tuned to minimize the loss function, which can be unstable and difficult to tune effectively.

In this paper, we present a new method for language model fine tuning that does not rely on reinforcement learning, and does not require access to human preferences.
Our method, which we call Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), takes an unsupervised large language model and a set
of preference labels, and optimally tunes the language model to maximize its reward while staying within a given training loss budget.
We derive the reward function for DPO analytically, and show that it can be optimized using a simple binary cross-entropy loss, which allows DPO to be implemented efficiently in practice.
Experiments demonstrate that DPO yields language models that are as effective as or more effective than existing methods for aligning language models with human preferences, while requiring only a simple binary cross-entropymaximization loss and no reinforcement learning.

\section{Introduction}
Large-scale unsupervsed language models (LMs), such as GPT-NB \citep{brown2019language} and OpenAI's Large \citep{openai-large}, have demonstrated impressive capabilities, such as generating fluent human-like text on diverse topics \citep{bengio2022training,bai2022training,bai2019language,brown2020language}.
However, these models are also known to exhibit problematic behaviors, such as toxicity \cite{tay2022 Reinforcement Learning from Human Preferences (RLHF) is a popular approach for aligning language models (LMs)
with human preferences. In this method, a reward model is first trained from human preferences, and then the language model is fine-tuned to maximize the reward while staying within a specified loss budget. This reward model
