--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's weight matrix to learn a new weight matrix that is orthogonal to the original one. This factorization is done by a simple projection onto a low-rank subspace. BOFT is a generalization of OFT, which is a special case of BOFT where the low-rank subspace is a block-diagonal matrix. In this paper, we present a new BOFT method that is more efficient than BOFT and OFT. We show that BOFT can be viewed as a block-diagonal OFT with a block-diagonal low-rank matrix. We also show that BOFT can achieve better performance than OFT and BOFT with a block-diagonal matrix, and that BOFT with a block diagonal matrix is more efficient than BOFF with a low-rank matrix. Finally, we show that BOFT with a low-rank subsample matrix is more efficient than OFT with a block diagonal matrix. We also show the BOFT with a blockdiagonal matrix is more efficient than the BOFT with a lowrank matrix. We conduct experiments on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, ImageNet, and ImageNet-1K. The results show that BOFT with block-diagonal matrix is more efficient and achieves better performance than OFT with block-diagonal matrix. We also show BOFT with a block-diagonal matrix is more efficient that BOFT with a rank matrix. We believe that BOFT with a factorization of the weight matrix is more efficient than other methods. We hope that our work will inspire more research on parameter-efficient finetuning methods.

Introduction
Finetuning is a popular training method for large models. It is used to improve the performance of a model by fine-tuning a smaller model. Finetuning is widely used in computer vision, natural language processing, and other fields. For example, finetuning ResNet-50 [21] on ImageNet improves the performance of ResNet-50 by 3.5% on average. Finetuning a small model on a large model is a common practice in the field of deep learning. However, finetuning a large model is computationally expensive. Therefore, it is important to develop efficient finetuning methods.
One way to improve efficiency is to use a smaller model to finetune a larger model. For example, BOFT [8] uses a small model to finetune the large model. BOFT is a block-diagonal finetuning method. BOFT uses a block-diagonal lowrank matrix to finetune the weight matrix of the large model. BOFF [9] is a block-diagonal OFFT method. BOFF uses a block-diagonal matrix to finetune a block-diagonal weight matrix. BOFT and BOFF are efficient finetuning methods. However, they are not the best finetuning methods. In this paper, our goal is to find the best finetuning method. We believe that the best finetuning is the one that uses the least number of parameters. We also believe that the best finetting method is the one that uses a factorization to finetune the model. We believe that the factorization can be used to reduce the number of parameters. We believe that the block-diagonal fineturing method is the best fineturing method. We believe that BOFF is the best finetuning with a block-diagonal finetting method. We believe that OFFT is the best finetunning method. We believe that block-diagonal OFFT is the best block-diagonal finetunning method. However, we do not know which method is the best. We believe that the BOFT with a factorized weight matrix is the best fineturning method. We believe that this method is the best because it uses the least number of parameter. We believe that the OFFT with a block-diagonalmatrix is the best block-diagonalmatrix finetuning method. However, we believe that the BOFT is the best finetting method. We also believe that BOFT is the best blockdiagonal finetuning method.
In this paper, we present BOFT, a new finetuning method that is more efficient and achieves higher performance than BOFT and OFFT. We show that BOFF is a special case of our BOFT. We also show that our BOFT is more efficient than BOF and BOFT with a low rank matrix. We also show our BOFT is more effective than OFFT with a block diagonal matrices. We also show that the BOFT with block-diagonalmatrix can achieve better performance than the BOFT with block diagonal matrices. We believe that our BOFT is the best method for finetuning large models. We also believe that our BOFT can be used to finetune any model. We believe that our method can be used to finete the model with the least number of parameters.
We conduct experiments on CIFAR10, CIFAR100, Image
