--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a finetuning method that uses a factorization of the model's weight matrix to learn a new weight matrix that is orthogonal to the original one. This factorization is done by a simple projection onto a low-rank subspace. BOFT is a generalization of OFT, which is a special case of BOFT where the low-rank subspace is a block-diagonal matrix. In this paper, we present a new BOFT method that is more efficient than BOFT and OFT. We show that BOFT can be viewed as a block-diagonal OFT with a block-diagonal low-rank matrix. We also show that BOFT can achieve better performance than OFT and BOFT with a block-diagonal matrix, and that BOFT with a block diagonal matrix is more efficient than BOFF with a low-rank matrix. Finally, we show that BOFT with a low-rank subsample matrix is more efficient than OFT with a block diagonal matrix. We also show the BOFT with a blockdiagonal matrix is more efficient than the BOFT with a lowrank matrix. We conduct experiments on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, ImageNet, and ImageNet-1K. The results show that BOFT with block-diagonal matrix is more efficient and achieves better performance than OFT with block-diagonal matrix and BOFT with low-rank matrix. The results also show that BOFT with low-ranks is more efficient than BOF with low-rank matrix.

Introduction
The training of deep neural networks (DNNs) has become a major challenge in machine learning. DNNs are trained using gradient descent, which requires a large number of parameters. The number of parameters in a DNN is proportional to the number of neurons in the network. Therefore, the training of DNNs is very expensive. To reduce the number of parameters, many methods have been proposed, such as pruning [1], quantization [2], and regularization [3]. However, these methods are not effective for large models. For example, pruning reduces the number of parameters by a factor of 2, but it cannot reduce the number of parameters by more than 50% [4]. Quantization reduces the number of parameters to 1/8, but it cannot reduce them to 1/16 [5]. Regularization reduces the number of weights, but it cannot reduce it to 1/2 [6]. These methods are not effective for reducing the number of parameters.
To reduce the number of parameters in DNNs, we need to find a way to reduce the number of parameters without changing the performance of the model. One way to reduce the number parameters is to train a smaller model with the same performance as the original model. This is called finetuning. Finetuning is a method that trains a smaller model with the original model. The smaller model is trained using the same training data as the original model. The finetuned model has the same performance as the model that was trained using the original data. Finetuning is an effective method for reducing the number of model parameters. However, finetuning is not always possible. For example, finetuning a model with 10 billion parameters is not possible because the training data is not available. In this case, we need to find another way to reduce the number parameter. One way to reduce parameter is to use a smaller model with the performance of the original model. This method is called finetuning with a smaller model. Finetuning with a smaller models is an effective method for training a model with a small number of parameters. However, finetting with a smaller model is not always possible. In this case, the model needs to be finetuned with a larger model. This method is also called finetuning with an intermediate model. Finetuning an intermediate model is an effective method for finetuning a model. However, finetunning an intermediate model is not always possible because the intermediate model is not available. In the case of finetuning an intermediate model, we need to finetune the intermediate model with a smaller model. This method is an effective method for fine-tuning a model. However finetuning an intermediate with a smaller model is also not always possible. In the case of fine-tuning an intermediate model, the intermediate model needs to be finituned with a larger model.
In this paper, we propose a new finetuning method called BOFT (Orthogonal Butterfly Finetuning). BOFT is a general finetuning method that finetunes a model with a small model. BOFT is a block-diagonal finetuning method. BOFT is a special case of OFT (Orthogonal Finetuning), which is a block-diagonal method. BOFT is more efficient than OFFT and BOFT with a low rank matrix. BOFT is also more efficient than BOFT with a block-diagonal matrix. BOFT with a blockdianal matrix is more efficient than a block-di
