According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the Office of Special Counsel (OSC), described as an investigative and prosecutorial agency, was established to seek: a fair, efficient, and lawfully-conducted Civil Service.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the opinion explains that under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, Section 1216 empowers OSC to investigate and seek corrective action for: certain other forms of misconduct by government employees.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the Office of Special Counsel investigates alleged FOIA violations under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, it may seek corrective action under: section 1214.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," according to AFL, the Department of Justice Civil Division said that before searching employee emails for responsive records, it needed: the employee’s consent.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after AFL sued the Department of Justice under FOIA over its request for certain emails, DOJ has produced: records responsive to the request.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL separately sought an investigation into the Department of Justice's alleged FOIA policy of not searching employee emails without consent, and the agency it asked to conduct that investigation was: OSC.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," although the district court concluded that OSC’s decision not to investigate was based on a legal error and still declined to order OSC to investigate any FOIA policy, the opinion viewed the investigation decision as committed to OSC’s discretion by: section 1216(c)
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after the Office of Special Counsel again declined to investigate and AFL moved for entry of final judgment, the district court dismissed: its remaining claims.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," before reaching the merits, the court said it had to consider whether AFL satisfied the requirements for: Article III standing.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL's satisfaction of Article III standing bore on the district court's: subjectmatter jurisdiction
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," before reaching the merits the court considered a jurisdictional issue affecting the district court’s subject-matter jurisdiction, and because neither party initially addressed it, the court ordered supplemental briefing on: standing.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL claimed that OSC had not provided notices and information required for an investigation under: section 1214.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when plaintiffs invoke the relaxed standing rules for alleged procedural injuries, they must show that the violation of a procedural right resulted in injury to some: concrete, particularized interest.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when describing AFL’s speculative causal chain for standing based on OSC’s failure to investigate DOJ under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, the court said the MSPB might have sanctioned the DOJ employees for: arbitrary FOIA withholdings.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after analyzing AFL’s first informational-injury theory, the court said AFL could not establish standing based on: its interest in the information that it requested from DOJ through FOIA.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court discussed AFL’s standing theory based on information it had sought from the Department of Justice, and AFL requested that information from DOJ through: FOIA.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," America First Legal Foundation sued to compel an investigation into whether a federal agency arbitrarily denied AFL's Freedom of Information Act request, and AFL sought to force that investigation to be conducted by: the Office of Special Counsel
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, America First Legal Foundation sued to compel the Office of Special Counsel to investigate whether a federal agency had arbitrarily denied: AFL’s Freedom of Information Act request.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the opinion describes the Office of Special Counsel (OSC) as: an investigative and prosecutorial agency
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the provision of the Civil Service Reform Act that sets forth the procedures governing corrective actions for prohibited personnel practices, including notice to the complaining party about the progress of an investigation, is: Section 1214
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," Section 1214 includes provisions for notifying the: complaining party about the progress of an investigation.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the opinion explains that, under the Civil Service Reform Act, the Office of Special Counsel is empowered to investigate and seek corrective action for certain other forms of misconduct by government employees under: Section 1216
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court explained that 5 U.S.C. § 1216 requires the Office of Special Counsel to investigate an allegation of arbitrary or capricious: withholding of information prohibited under section 552
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," Section 1216 directs the Office of Special Counsel to investigate allegations of arbitrary or capricious withholding of information prohibited under 5 U.S.C. § 552, in other words, withholdings prohibited by: the Freedom of Information Act
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the Office of Special Counsel investigates alleged Freedom of Information Act violations under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC may seek corrective action under § 1214 and disciplinary action under § 1215 in the same way as if: a prohibited personnel practice were involved.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," FOIA includes a separate enforcement provision involving the Office of Special Counsel, and under that provision a court must specifically question whether the agency: “acted arbitrarily or capriciously with respect to the withholding,”
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," FOIA contains a separate enforcement provision involving the Office of Special Counsel, under which, if a court orders production of improperly withheld agency records, awards attorneys’ fees against the agency, and specifically questions whether the agency acted arbitrarily or capriciously in withholding the records, OSC must determine whether disciplinary action is warranted against the: officer or employee who was primarily responsible for the withholding
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL requested certain emails between an outside attorney and the Department of Justice’s Civil Division to investigate: judicial recusals
In the case "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL separately asked the Office of Special Counsel to investigate an alleged Department of Justice FOIA practice, namely: not searching employee emails without consent
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," where AFL asked the Office of Special Counsel to investigate the Department of Justice's alleged FOIA policy and relied on a statute stating that OSC "shall ... conduct an investigation" of arbitrary FOIA withholdings, AFL invoked: section 1216(a)(3)
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after AFL asked the Office of Special Counsel about an alleged DOJ FOIA policy and relied on 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3), that provision requires OSC to: conduct an investigation
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after AFL asked OSC to investigate DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the three predicates for triggering an investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(F)(i) were not satisfied, so OSC disclaimed: authority to investigate
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," where OSC declined to investigate AFL’s complaint about DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the opinion stated that the three predicates for triggering an investigation were not satisfied under: section 552(a)(4)(F)(i)
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," although the district court ruled in part for AFL, it ultimately dismissed its case for: failure to state a claim
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after ruling in part for AFL on its challenge to OSC’s refusal to investigate DOJ’s alleged FOIA policy, the district court dismissed AFL’s case for: failure to state a claim.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the district court concluded that OSC’s power to investigate alleged FOIA violations under section 1216 is not limited by: section 552(a)(4)(F)(i).
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," where the district court held that 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(F)(i) does not limit the Office of Special Counsel’s authority to investigate alleged FOIA violations, the opinion states that this investigative power arises under: section 1216.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the district court concluded that section 1216 did not require it to order an investigation into an alleged DOJ FOIA policy, and that section 1216(c) committed the decision to: OSC’s discretion
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after the Office of Special Counsel again declined to investigate AFL's complaint about DOJ's alleged FOIA policy, AFL moved in the district court: for entry of final judgment
In the case "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after noting that neither party had initially addressed Article III standing even though the issue affected the district court's subject-matter jurisdiction, the court ordered: supplemental briefing on that question
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing the requirements for Article III standing, the injury must be an invasion of: a legally protected interest
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," for Article III standing an injury must be concrete and particularized, and it also must be: actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," a plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting each element of Article III standing at: the motion-to-dismiss stage.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when a court is evaluating Article III standing at the motion-to-dismiss stage, the plaintiff must allege facts plausibly supporting: each element of its standing
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the D.C. Circuit considered whether AFL had Article III standing and, in discussing AFL’s contention that OSC’s refusal to investigate caused specific harms, noted that AFL contended the refusal caused it: two concrete, informational injuries
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after supplemental briefing on standing, AFL argued that OSC’s refusal to investigate caused a concrete informational injury because the Department of Justice had not provided: the records that AFL requested through FOIA
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing AFL's claimed informational injuries for Article III standing, OSC had not provided the materials required for an investigation under section 1214, namely: the notices and information
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," where the court was considering whether AFL had Article III standing before reaching the merits, the opinion explained that the relaxed standing requirements AFL sought to invoke apply to: cases involving alleged procedural injury.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when plaintiffs claim injury from the violation of a statutory procedural right designed to protect a threatened concrete interest, courts relax, though not eliminate entirely,: the issues of imminence and redressability
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when plaintiffs claim standing based on the violation of a statutory procedural right designed to protect a threatened concrete interest, courts may relax imminence and redressability but do not relax: injury in fact or causation.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when a plaintiff alleges standing based on the violation of a procedural right, the resulting injury must affect a: “concrete, particularized interest.”
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," addressing Article III standing and AFL’s claimed procedural injuries, the court said that because AFL could not satisfy even the relaxed standing requirements for procedural injuries, it did not need to decide: whether these injuries are procedural or substantive
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court discussed AFL’s first standing theory, which alleged that OSC’s failure to investigate DOJ prevented AFL from receiving records it had requested under FOIA, and AFL claimed OSC failed to investigate DOJ under: section 1216
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," under AFL’s first Article III standing theory concerning OSC’s alleged failure to investigate DOJ under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC’s failure to investigate allegedly prevented AFL from receiving: the records it requested under FOIA.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court considered AFL's Article III standing theory based on an alleged informational injury tied to DOJ's refusal to provide material under FOIA, and DOJ refused to disclose: agency records
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court said that any causal connection between OSC’s failure to conduct a section 1216 investigation and DOJ’s failure to comply with the FOIA request was too speculative and attenuated to support: Article III standing.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the court evaluated AFL’s standing theory based on OSC’s failure to conduct a section 1216 investigation and DOJ’s failure to comply with AFL’s FOIA request, it said the alleged causal connection was too speculative and attenuated to support: Article III standing.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL’s standing theory depended on a speculative causal chain in which, if OSC had conducted the assertedly mandatory section 1216 investigation, it might have decided to pursue: a corrective action under section 1214
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL's standing theory based on OSC's alleged failure to conduct a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216 posited that OSC might have pursued a disciplinary action under § 1215 against: offending DOJ employees
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing AFL’s standing theory based on OSC’s failure to investigate under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, the entity that might have decided to sanction DOJ employees for arbitrary FOIA withholdings was: the MSPB
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court rejected AFL’s standing theory in part because it depended on speculation about decisions by independent government actors not before the court, namely: the MSPB and DOJ
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court rejected AFL’s Article III standing theory because, under the quoted principle, causation generally cannot rely on speculation about the unfettered choices made by: independent actors not before the courts.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the court rejected AFL’s Article III standing theory based on OSC’s failure to investigate under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, the court said that accepting the theory would require speculation about how OSC might choose to exercise: its enforcement discretion
In the case "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," while analyzing Article III standing and explaining that the plaintiff’s causation theory depended on speculation about OSC’s choices, the court said that the courts generally may not compel OSC to: exercise its enforcement discretion
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court rejected AFL's standing theory in part because redressability does not depend on whether a judgment's reasoning might persuade nonparties, and under the principle AFL overlooked, redressability generally turns on: how a judgment binds the parties
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court held that AFL’s second theory for Article III standing was based on the asserted informational interest in: the fruits of the OSC investigation itself
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after rejecting AFL’s first Article III standing theory tied to FOIA records, the court concluded that AFL’s second standing theory based on its asserted informational interest in the results of an OSC investigation: fares no better.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the alleged concrete injury is being denied information that a statute entitled him to receive, a plaintiff claims: informational standing
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when discussing Article III standing and informational standing, a plaintiff suffers a: concrete injury if he is denied information that a “statute entitled him to receive.”
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court said that even if 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3) requires the Office of Special Counsel to investigate, that provision concerns: FOIA violations.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," when the court addressed AFL’s informational-standing theory based on OSC’s alleged duty to investigate FOIA violations under 5 U.S.C. § 1216(a)(3), it said that provision does not entitle a plaintiff to: receive information.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL argued that if the Office of Special Counsel conducted the allegedly mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC might choose to provide AFL with the materials that would be required in a § 1214 prohibited-personnel-practice investigation, namely: notices and information
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL argued that if OSC conducted a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, OSC might provide notices and information like those required in an investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1214, where those requirements are triggered by an alleged: “prohibited personnel practice”
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," AFL argued that if the Office of Special Counsel conducted a mandatory investigation under 5 U.S.C. § 1216, it might provide notices and information like those required in investigations under § 1214, but AFL did not contend that OSC had to graft § 1214's notice requirements onto: its section 1216 investigations
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court rejected AFL’s second standing theory because it had not alleged any entitlement to receive information under: section 1214
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," the court rejected AFL’s second Article III standing theory, which was based on an asserted informational interest in the results of an OSC investigation, because absent any alleged entitlement to receive information under 5 U.S.C. § 1214, AFL lacked: a concrete injury
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," while evaluating AFL’s second standing theory based on alleged informational injury from an OSC investigation, the court explained that because OSC need not provide section 1214 notice requirements in a section 1216 investigation, a judicial order mandating such an investigation would not be reasonably likely to: redress AFL’s second alleged injury.
According to the opinion in "America First Legal Foundation v. Jamieson Greer," after concluding that AFL lacked Article III standing, the court instructed the district court on remand to dismiss the case for: lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.
