--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data structure in computer science. The butterfly structure is used in a variety of applications, including fast Fourier transforms and sparse matrix representations. The butterfly structure is a sparse matrix that is constructed by combining multiple dense matrices. The butterfly structure is composed of a set of dense matrices that are combined to form a sparse matrix. The dense matrices are referred to as "butterfly leaves," and the sparse matrix is referred to as the "butterfly matrix." The butterfly matrix is constructed by combining a number of butterfly leaves. The butterfly structure is an efficient way to represent a sparse matrix. The butterfly structure is made up of a set of dense blocks that are connected to one another. The dense blocks are referred to as "leaves," and the entire structure is referred to as the butterfly. The butterfly structure is constructed by combining a set of dense blocks. The dense blocks are connected to one another to form a sparse matrix, which is referred to as the “butterfly matrix.” The butterfly matrix is constructed from a set of dense blocks, which are referred to as “leaves.” The butterfly matrix is made up of a number of dense blocks that are linked together. The dense blocks are known as "leaves," while the entire structure is referred as the "butterflies." The butterfly matrix is made of a number of dense leaves that are linked together. In the context of BOFT, the dense blocks are referred to a "butterfly factor," and the butterfly matrix is referred to as a "butterfly matrix factor." The butterfly matrix factor is constructed by combining a collection of butterfly factors. The butterfly matrix factor is a sparse matrix that can be used to represent a dense matrix. The butterfly matrix factor can be used to represent the dense matrix. The dense matrix is represented by the butterfly matrix factor. The dense matrix is constructed by combining the butterfly matrix factors. The dense matrix is made up of butterfly matrix factors. The butterfly matrix factors are combined to form the dense matrix. The butterfly structure can be used to represent any dense matrix. The butterfly factor can be used to construct a dense matrix. The dense matrices can be constructed by combining the butterfly factors. The dense matrices are constructed by combining the butterfly matrices. The dense matrices are made up of butterfly matrices. The butterfly matrices are combined to form the final dense matrix. The dense block is a dense matrix that is constructed by connecting a number of dense blocks. The butterfly matrix is constructed using a set of dense blocks called "butterfly factors." The dense matrix is constructed using a collection of dense blocks called "dense blocks." The dense matrix is made of a set of dense block. The dense block is constructed by combining a group of dense blocks. The sparse matrix is constructed by combining multiple sparse matrices. The sparse matrix is made up of multiple sparse matrices. The dense matrix is composed of a set dense matrices. The dense matrix can be constructed by combining a set dense matrices. A dense matrix is constructed by connecting a set of dense matrices. The dense matrices can also be connected to form a dense matrix. The sparse matrix is composed of a collection of sparse matrices. The sparse matrices are connected to form a sparse matrix.

The butterfly structure is a well-known data representation in computer science. The sparse matrix is represented by the dense matrix. The sparse matrices are represented by the dense matrices. The dense block is represented by the dense matrices, and the dense matrix is represented by a set of dense matrices.

The butterfly matrix is constructed by connecting multiple dense matrices. The dense blocks are represented by the dense matrix, and the dense matrix can be represented by a set of sparse matrices. The dense matrices represent the sparse matrix. The dense matrix represents the sparse matrix. The sparse matrix can be represented by the dense matrix.

The dense matrix is constructed by linking a set of dense matrices, and the sparse matrix is constructed by connecting several sparse matrices. The dense block can be represented by the sparse matrix, and the dense matrices can be represented by the set of sparse matrices. A dense matrix can be constructed using a set of sparse matrices, and a sparse matrix can be constructed using several dense matrices. The dense and sparse matrices are connected to create a dense matrix. The connection between the dense and sparse matrices is used to create a dense matrix.

The dense block is constructed by connecting a group of dense blocks, and the dense matrix represents the dense block. The dense matrix is created by connecting a set of sparse matrices.

The dense matrix is made up a set of dense matrices and a set of sparse matrices that are connected to form a dense block. The dense matrices are connected to form the dense block, and the dense block is connected to form the dense matrix.

The butterfly matrix is made up a collection of dense matrices that are connected to create a sparse matrix. The sparse matrices can be connected to form a sparse block, and the sparse block can be connected to form the sparse matrix. The butterfly matrix is made by connecting a set of butterfly matrices
