--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be helpful to you.

1. The paper is about a new model called DeepSeekMath, which is a 7B parameter model. It is the largest open-source model in the world. It is 3 times larger than GPT-4 and 7 times larger than Gemini-Ultra.

2. The model is trained on 500B tokens. 80% of the tokens are from Common Crawl, 10% from the English Wikipedia, and 10% from OpenWeb. The training data is filtered by frequency. The data with a frequency of less than 1/10,000 is filtered out. The data with a token frequency of less than 0.05% is filtered out. The training data is tokenized by spaCy.

3. The model is trained for 150B tokens. The training data is divided into 150B tokens. 80B tokens are used for training, 30B tokens are used for validation, and 40B tokens are used for testing.

4. The model is trained with a batch size of 4M tokens. The learning rate is 5e-5. The maximum learning rate is 1e-4. The learning rate is reduced by a factor of 10 after 100,000 steps. The learning rate is further reduced by a factor of ten after 200,000 steps. The training is done with a maximum of 100 epochs.

5. The model is trained using the AdamW optimizer. The weight decay is 0.1. The model is trained at a temperature of 0.1.

6. The model is trained in 4 GPUs. Each GPU has 48 GB of memory. The model is trained over 2 days.

7. The model is evaluated on 8 benchmarks. The benchmarks are MATH, MATH-U, MATH-R, MATH-RF, MATH-RC, MATH-RCF, MATH-TC, and MATH-TCF. The MATH benchmark is a multiple-choice benchmark. The MATH-U benchmark is a multiple-choice benchmarks with a few-shot prompt. The MATH-R benchmark is a multiple-choice with a few-shot prompt and a few-shot chain-of-thought prompt. The MATH-RC benchmark is a multiple-choice without a prompt. The MATH-M benchmark is a multiple-choice question with a chain-of-thought prompt and a few-shot prompt. MATH-RCF is a multiple-choice benchmark with a chain-of-throught prompt. MATH-TCF is a multiple-choice with chain-of-thought prompt.

8. The model is evaluated with and without a few-shot prompt. It is evaluated with and without chain-of-thought prompt on the MATH and MATH-RC benchmarks.

9. The model is evaluated using the following metrics: accuracy, F1 score, and the number of steps. The model is evaluated by the number of steps because the chain-of-thought prompt is used.

10. The model is evaluated against the following models: GPT-4, Gemini-Ultra, GPT-3, GPT-2, and ChatGPT. The model is evaluated in the same way as the other models.

11. The model is evaluated for the following tasks: solving mathematical problems, translating mathematical problems, and writing mathematical proofs.

12. The model is evaluated to see if it can solve mathematical problems in a few-shot prompt. For example, the model is given a few-shot prompt and then it is asked to solve a mathematical problem. The model is evaluated based on the number of steps it takes to solve the problem.

13. The model is evaluated if it can solve mathematical problem in a chain-of-thought. The model is evaluated the same way as the few-shot prompt.

14. The model is evaluated how well it can translate mathematical problems. The model is evaluated both with and without a few shot prompt.

15. The model is evaluated about how well it can write mathematical proofs. The model is evaluated without a few-shot prompt.

16. The model is evaluated whether it can solve mathematical problems with a chain-of-thougth prompt. The model is evaluated only on the MATH-RCF benchmark.

17. The model is evaluated what it can do with a chain-of-thught prompt. The model is given a chain-of-thought task and it is evaluated how well it does.

18. The model is evaluated its ability to solve mathematical problems with a few-shot prompt on the MATH-TCF benchmark. The model is evaluated not only on the MATH benchmark but also on the MATH-RTF benchmark.

19. The model is evaluated it can solve mathematical problems without a few-shot prompt on MATH-TCF.

20. The model is evaluated that it can solve mathematical problems on MATH-TC with a chain-of-though prompt.

21. The model is evaluated at how well it can translate a mathematical problem with a chain-of-thougth prompt.

22. The model is evaluated when
