----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Just after 4:00 a.m. on April 20, 2023, Officer Jamie Kizer of the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department, responded to a caller reporting that her stepfather (Jaison Coleman) threatened to kill her mother (Lisa Coleman) and was still inside the home.
original_answer: Marshfield, Wisconsin police department
new_answer: Marshfield, Wisconsin police department
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Jamie Kizer was with the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department when she responded just after 4:00 a.m. on April 20, 2023, to a 911 domestic-violence call involving Jaison Coleman.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Jamie Kizer responded just after 4:00 a.m. on April 20, 2023, to a 911 domestic-violence call involving Jaison Coleman while she was with the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department.

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer knocked on the door and spoke to Lisa, who balked when asked whether her kids were okay.
original_answer: whether her kids were okay
new_answer: whether her kids were okay
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, during the response to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Jamie Kizer asked Lisa Coleman at the door whether her kids were okay, which caused her to balk while responding.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, during the response to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Jamie Kizer asked Lisa Coleman at the door, causing her to balk while responding to whether her kids were okay.

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer reacted by saying, “I’m sensing that we almost need to come inside to make sure of that.”
original_answer: come inside
new_answer: come inside
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after responding to a 911 domestic violence call and speaking with Lisa Coleman at the door, Officer Jamie Kizer said the officers almost needed to come inside to make sure the children were okay.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after responding to a 911 domestic violence call and speaking with Lisa Coleman at the door, Officer Jamie Kizer said the officers almost needed to come inside.

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer reacted by saying, “I’m sensing that we almost need to come inside to make sure of that.”
original_answer: I’m sensing
new_answer: I’m sensing
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa Coleman hesitated when Officer Jamie Kizer asked whether her children were okay during his response to a 4:00 a.m. domestic-violence 911 call at the Coleman home in Marshfield, Wisconsin, Kizer began expressing his concern by saying: I’m sensing
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa Coleman hesitated when Officer Jamie Kizer asked whether her children were okay during his response to a 4:00 a.m. domestic-violence 911 call at the Coleman home in Marshfield, Wisconsin, Kizer began expressing his concern with the words I’m sensing.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court found that this exchange supplied Officer Kizer with the consent necessary to enter the home and, further, that he and his colleagues did not exceed the scope of Lisa’s consent once inside.
original_answer: "the scope of Lisa’s consent"
new_answer: the scope of Lisa’s consent
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Officer Kizer and his colleagues did not exceed "the scope of Lisa’s consent" after entering the home during the domestic-violence response.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Officer Kizer and his colleagues did not exceed the scope of Lisa’s consent.

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The pertinent facts come from body camera footage recorded by Officer Kizer and his colleagues at the Coleman home.
original_answer: "body camera footage"
new_answer: body camera footage
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the pertinent facts described in the opinion were provided by "body camera footage".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the pertinent facts described in the opinion were provided by body camera footage.

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The pertinent facts come from body camera footage recorded by Officer Kizer and his colleagues at the Coleman home.
original_answer: "Officer Kizer and his colleagues"
new_answer: Officer Kizer and his colleagues
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion states that the pertinent facts came from body camera footage recorded at the Coleman home, and that footage was recorded by "Officer Kizer and his colleagues".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion states that the pertinent facts came from body camera footage recorded at the Coleman home, and that footage was recorded by Officer Kizer and his colleagues.

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022) (“[A] video record of the events at issue can evaporate any factual dispute that would otherwise exist ….” (citing Scott v. Harris, 550 U.S. 372, 381 (2007))).
original_answer: "A video record of the events at issue"
new_answer: "A video record of the events at issue"
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion cites United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that "A video record of the events at issue" can evaporate any factual dispute that would otherwise exist.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion cites United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that any factual dispute that would otherwise exist can evaporate with "A video record of the events at issue".

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022) (“[A] video record of the events at issue can evaporate any factual dispute that would otherwise exist ….” (citing Scott v. Harris, 550 U.S. 372, 381 (2007))).
original_answer: "Scott v. Harris"
new_answer: Scott v. Harris
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court cited United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that video evidence can eliminate factual disputes, and Norville cited "Scott v. Harris" for that proposition.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court cited United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that video evidence can eliminate factual disputes, and Norville cited Scott v. Harris.

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa responded by stepping onto the porch and telling Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside.
original_answer: "her son and daughter"
new_answer: her son and daughter
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after body camera footage showed Officer Kizer arriving at the Coleman home, knocking on the door, and announcing himself, Lisa told Officer Kizer that "her son and daughter" were inside the home.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after body camera footage showed Officer Kizer arriving at the Coleman home, knocking on the door, and announcing himself, Lisa told Officer Kizer that the people inside the home were her son and daughter.

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She hesitated to answer whether her kids were safe, saying (at that initial moment) only that they were in her bedroom.
original_answer: whether her kids were safe
new_answer: whether her kids were safe
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Lisa stepped onto the porch and spoke with Officer Kizer at the Coleman home, she hesitated to answer whether her kids were safe.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Lisa hesitated to answer whether her kids were safe.

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She hesitated to answer whether her kids were safe, saying (at that initial moment) only that they were in her bedroom.
original_answer: in her bedroom
new_answer: in her bedroom
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home and Lisa stepped onto the porch, she said her children were in her bedroom at that initial moment.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home and Lisa stepped onto the porch, she said her children were in her bedroom.

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Taking a different approach, Officer Kizer next asked where her husband was located inside the home.
original_answer: "her husband"
new_answer: her husband
original_statement: After Lisa told Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside and gave uncertain answers about whether the children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked about "her husband"
new_statement: After Lisa told Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside and gave uncertain answers about whether the children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked about her husband.

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After some time passed with no sign of Lisa coming back outside, a concerned Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times asking if she was okay.
original_answer: "if she was okay"
new_answer: if she was okay
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer was asking "if she was okay" when he called into the house several times.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer called into the house several times, asking if she was okay.

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A brief discussion followed, with Coleman permitting Officer Kizer to conduct a protective pat down.
original_answer: "Officer Kizer"
new_answer: Officer Kizer
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and one officer found Coleman in a separate bedroom, Coleman permitted "Officer Kizer" to conduct a protective pat down.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and one officer found Coleman in a separate bedroom, Coleman permitted a protective pat down by Officer Kizer.

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In talking to the two children, the officers learned that Lisa and Coleman had been fighting, with Coleman reportedly being loud, aggressive, and mean.
original_answer: "Lisa and Coleman"
new_answer: Lisa and Coleman
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with the two children, the children said that the people who had been fighting were "Lisa and Coleman".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with the two children, the children said that the people who had been fighting were Lisa and Coleman

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The children added that their father pointed a gun at their mother and threatened to shoot her and to light the house on fire.
original_answer: "a gun"
new_answer: a gun
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with the two children about the fight between Lisa and Coleman, the children said their father had pointed at their mother "a gun"
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with the two children about the fight between Lisa and Coleman, the children said their father had pointed at their mother “a gun”.

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The children added that their father pointed a gun at their mother and threatened to shoot her and to light the house on fire.
original_answer: "light the house on fire"
new_answer: "light the house on fire"
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and learned about a fight between Lisa and Coleman, the children said their father threatened to do to the house "light the house on fire".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and learned about a fight between Lisa and Coleman, the children said their father threatened to "light the house on fire".

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Based on information gained following their entry into the house, the officers sought and secured a warrant to search the Coleman home.
original_answer: "a warrant"
new_answer: a warrant
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after entering the house and obtaining information, the officers sought and secured "a warrant" in order to search the Coleman home.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after entering the house and obtaining information, the officers sought and secured a warrant.

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following a hearing, a magistrate judge issued a report finding that Lisa did consent to the officers entering her home and recommending the denial of Coleman’s motion.
original_answer: consent to the officers entering her home
new_answer: consent to the officers entering her home
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home on the ground that his wife had not allowed the officers to enter, the magistrate judge found that Lisa did consent to the officers entering her home.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home on the ground that his wife had not allowed the officers to enter, the magistrate judge found that Lisa gave consent to the officers entering her home.

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court agreed, adopting the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry and, separately, rejecting Coleman’s contention that the officers’ activity inside the home exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent.
original_answer: "Lisa consented to the officers’ entry"
new_answer: Lisa consented to the officers’ entry
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home, the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa gave the police permission to enter, namely "Lisa consented to the officers’ entry".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home, the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry.

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The governing legal principles are well-established, with both parties recognizing that consent is an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home.
original_answer: "the Fourth Amendment’s"
new_answer: the Fourth Amendment’s
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, both parties agreed on the settled Fourth Amendment principle that consent was recognized as an exception to the warrant requirement for searching a home under "the Fourth Amendment’s"
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, both parties agreed on the settled Fourth Amendment principle that consent was recognized as an exception to the warrant requirement for searching a home under the Fourth Amendment’s.

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Banks, 60 F.4th 386, 390 (7th Cir. 2023); see also Schneckloth v. Bustamonte, 412 U.S. 218, 219 (1973). So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)). The Supreme Court has long recognized that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given. Bumper v. North Carolina, 391 U.S. 543, 548 (1968).
original_answer: "a third party"
new_answer: a third party
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, discussing the Fourth Amendment consent exception to the warrant requirement and citing United States v. Cellitti, the opinion explains that consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy may be given by "a third party"
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, discussing the Fourth Amendment consent exception to the warrant requirement and citing United States v. Cellitti, the opinion explains that consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy may be given by "a third party".

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Banks, 60 F.4th 386, 390 (7th Cir. 2023); see also Schneckloth v. Bustamonte, 412 U.S. 218, 219 (1973). So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)). The Supreme Court has long recognized that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given. Bumper v. North Carolina, 391 U.S. 543, 548 (1968).
original_answer: "freely and voluntarily"
new_answer: "freely and voluntarily"
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, which discusses consent as an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home, the Supreme Court has said consent must be given "freely and voluntarily" to be valid.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, which discusses consent as an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home, the Supreme Court has said consent must be given "freely and voluntarily".

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Supreme Court has long recognized that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given.
original_answer: "freely and voluntarily"
new_answer: freely and voluntarily
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the Supreme Court said that consent must be "freely and voluntarily" to be valid under the Fourth Amendment consent exception.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the Supreme Court said that consent must be obtained freely and voluntarily.

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Courts assess the voluntariness of consent by considering the totality of the circumstances.
original_answer: "the totality of the circumstances"
new_answer: the totality of the circumstances
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts evaluate whether consent to a home search was voluntary under the Fourth Amendment, they consider "the totality of the circumstances"
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts evaluate whether consent to a home search was voluntary under the Fourth Amendment, they consider "the totality of the circumstances."

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review a district court’s finding of voluntary consent and any challenge to its scope for clear error.
original_answer: "clear error"
new_answer: clear error
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the appellate court applies "clear error" when reviewing a district court's ruling on a challenge to the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the appellate court reviews a district court's ruling on a challenge to the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment for clear error.

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, Officer Kizer’s tone and demeanor throughout was that of someone concerned, not someone coercing.
original_answer: "that of someone concerned"
new_answer: that of someone concerned
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, in the court’s review of whether Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, Officer Kizer’s tone and demeanor throughout the interaction were characterized as "that of someone concerned"
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, during the court’s review of whether Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, Officer Kizer’s tone and demeanor throughout the interaction were characterized as "that of someone concerned".

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She chose to let Officer Kizer enter after he asked again, with the second request being unaccompanied by any coercion.
original_answer: "after he asked again"
new_answer: after he asked again
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court found that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer entering her home, she allowed Officer Kizer to enter "after he asked again".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer entering her home, and she allowed Officer Kizer to enter after he asked again.

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: From the time Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman residence, he spoke calmly and respectfully to Lisa, who—at all points in time—responded in ways demonstrating she understood what was transpiring.
original_answer: Answer: "what was transpiring"
new_answer: what was transpiring
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court described Officer Kizer's interaction with Lisa at the Coleman residence, Lisa's responses demonstrated that she understood what was transpiring.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court described Officer Kizer's interaction with Lisa at the Coleman residence, Lisa's responses demonstrated that she understood the unfolding events—what was transpiring.

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Officer Kizer did not explicitly tell her that she did not need to consent to his entry, the fact that he asked for permission implied as much, as did the fact that she initially denied his request.
original_answer: "denied his request"
new_answer: denied his request
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," Lisa initially did what, along with Officer Kizer asking for permission to enter, implied she did not have to consent to his entry? "denied his request"
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," Lisa initially did what, along with Officer Kizer asking for permission to enter, implied she did not have to consent to his entry: denied his request.

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Lisa may have felt some degree of pressure to let the police enter her home, at no point did Officer Kizer exert coercion.
original_answer: "some degree of pressure"
new_answer: some degree of pressure
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court evaluated whether Lisa consented to Officer Kizer's entry into her home, it said Lisa may have felt "some degree of pressure" about letting the police enter.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court evaluated whether Lisa consented to Officer Kizer's entry into her home, it said Lisa may have felt pressure about letting the police enter: some degree of pressure.

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Lisa may have felt some degree of pressure to let the police enter her home, at no point did Officer Kizer exert coercion.
original_answer: "coercion"
new_answer: coercion
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court evaluated whether Lisa's consent to Officer Kizer's entry into her home was voluntary, it said Officer Kizer did not exert at any point "coercion".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court evaluated whether Lisa's consent to Officer Kizer's entry into her home was voluntary, it said Officer Kizer did not exert coercion.

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On this record, the district court committed no clear error in finding that Lisa consented to the police entry.
original_answer: clear error
new_answer: clear error
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after reviewing the record concerning whether Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the appellate court said the district court did not commit clear error in making that finding.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after reviewing the record concerning whether Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the appellate court said the district court did not commit clear error.

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Coleman begs to differ, focusing on Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” in the critical second exchange: “Okay, um, I’m sensing that we almost need to come inside to make sure [the kids are okay].
original_answer: "to make sure [the kids are okay]"
new_answer: "to make sure [the kids are okay]"
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, where Coleman challenged the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer’s entry into the home, Officer Kizer said they almost needed to come inside "to make sure [the kids are okay]"
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, where Coleman challenged the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer’s entry into the home, Officer Kizer said they almost needed to come inside "to make sure [the kids are okay]".

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court could reasonably find that Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” did not make his request coercive in light of the totality of the circumstances.
original_answer: “need”
new_answer: need
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Kizer’s second request to enter the home used the word “need,” which the district court could reasonably find did not make the request coercive under the totality of the circumstances.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Kizer’s second request to enter the home used the word “need,” which the district court could reasonably find did not make the request coercive under the totality of the circumstances need.

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer asked for permission to enter by expressing concern for the safety of Lisa’s children and relayed that concern with some urgency and intensity, but the district court did not clearly err by finding that he did so without overstepping and coercing her consent.
original_answer: "the safety of Lisa’s children"
new_answer: the safety of Lisa’s children
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court discussed whether Lisa’s consent to Officer Kizer’s entry was coerced, Officer Kizer said he was concerned about "the safety of Lisa’s children" when asking for permission to enter.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court discussed whether Lisa’s consent to Officer Kizer’s entry was coerced, Officer Kizer said he was concerned about the safety of Lisa’s children.

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: All of this leads us to affirm the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home.
original_answer: "affirm"
new_answer: affirm
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court’s action on the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home was "affirm".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court’s action on the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home was to affirm.

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We likewise agree with the district court’s finding that the officers acted within the scope of Lisa’s consent upon their entry into the home.
original_answer: "the scope of Lisa’s consent"
new_answer: the scope of Lisa’s consent
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that the officers acted within "the scope of Lisa’s consent" when they entered Lisa's home.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that the officers acted within the scope of Lisa’s consent.

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We likewise agree with the district court’s finding that the officers acted within the scope of Lisa’s consent upon their entry into the home.
original_answer: "upon their entry into the home"
new_answer: upon their entry into the home
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court agreed with the district court’s finding that the officers acted within the scope of Lisa’s consent, which the opinion described as "upon their entry into the home".
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court agreed with the district court’s finding that the officers acted within the scope of Lisa’s consent, which the opinion described as upon their entry into the home.

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Their stated purpose was to check the welfare of her children inside, including by confirming that Coleman presented no danger to them or anyone else.
original_answer: "to check the welfare of her children inside"
new_answer: "to check the welfare of her children inside"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court addressed whether the officers acted within the scope of Lisa's consent after entering the home, the officers stated that their purpose for entering was "to check the welfare of her children inside".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court addressed whether the officers acted within the scope of Lisa's consent after entering the home, the officers stated that their purpose for entering was "to check the welfare of her children inside"

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Their stated purpose was to check the welfare of her children inside, including by confirming that Coleman presented no danger to them or anyone else.
original_answer: "no danger to them or anyone else"
new_answer: no danger to them or anyone else
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the officers entered Lisa's home under consent to check on the welfare of her children and sought to confirm that Coleman presented to the children or anyone else was "no danger to them or anyone else".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the officers entered Lisa's home with consent to check on the welfare of her children and sought to confirm that Coleman posed no danger to them or anyone else.

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Doing so necessarily required the police to scan the home, locate everyone, and ask some basic questions.
original_answer: "scan the home"
new_answer: "scan the home"
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," because the officers entered the home within the scope of Lisa's consent to check the welfare of her children and confirm that Coleman posed no danger, the court said the police necessarily had to "scan the home" in order to visually inspect the residence.
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," because the officers entered the home within the scope of Lisa's consent to check the welfare of her children and confirm that Coleman posed no danger, the court said the police necessarily had to visually inspect the residence, or "scan the home".

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Doing so necessarily required the police to scan the home, locate everyone, and ask some basic questions.
original_answer: "locate everyone"
new_answer: "locate everyone"
original_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court agreed that officers acted within the scope of Lisa's consent when they entered the home to check on the welfare of her children and confirm that Coleman posed no danger, and that task necessarily required the police to "locate everyone" in order to account for all individuals present.
new_statement: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court agreed that officers acted within the scope of Lisa's consent when they entered the home to check on the welfare of her children and confirm that Coleman posed no danger. That task necessarily required the police to "locate everyone".

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We see no infirmity in the district court’s finding that the officers, once inside the Coleman home, respected the consent that Lisa conferred in the first instance.
original_answer: Answer: "the consent that Lisa conferred in the first instance"
new_answer: the consent that Lisa conferred in the first instance
original_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after the officers entered the Coleman home, the court said they respected within the scope of Lisa's permission to enter "the consent that Lisa conferred in the first instance".
new_statement: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after the officers entered the Coleman home, the court said they acted within the scope of Lisa’s permission to enter, "the consent that Lisa conferred in the first instance".

