----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Just after 4:00 a.m. on April 20, 2023, Officer Jamie Kizer of the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department, responded to a caller reporting that her stepfather (Jaison Coleman) threatened to kill her mother (Lisa Coleman) and was still inside the home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Jamie Kizer responded just after 4:00 a.m. on April 20, 2023, to a 911 domestic-violence call involving Jaison Coleman while she was with the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department.
target:  Marshfield, Wisconsin police department.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Jamie Kizer responded just after 4:00 a.m. on April 20, 2023, to a 911 domestic-violence call involving Jaison Coleman while she was with the

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer knocked on the door and spoke to Lisa, who balked when asked whether her kids were okay.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer of the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department knocked on the door while responding to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Kizer spoke to Lisa.
target:  Lisa.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer of the Marshfield, Wisconsin police department knocked on the door while responding to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Kizer spoke to

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer knocked on the door and spoke to Lisa, who balked when asked whether her kids were okay.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, during the response to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Jamie Kizer asked Lisa Coleman at the door, causing her to balk while responding to whether her kids were okay.
target:  whether her kids were okay.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, during the response to a 911 domestic-violence call, Officer Jamie Kizer asked Lisa Coleman at the door, causing her to balk while responding to

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer reacted by saying, “I’m sensing that we almost need to come inside to make sure of that.”
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after responding to a 911 domestic violence call and speaking with Lisa Coleman at the door, Officer Jamie Kizer said the officers almost needed to come inside.
target:  come inside.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after responding to a 911 domestic violence call and speaking with Lisa Coleman at the door, Officer Jamie Kizer said the officers almost needed to

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa then said, “Okay” and proceeded to tell Officer Kizer that her kids were in one bedroom, her husband was in another, and her dogs were friendly and would not bite.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer responded to a 911 domestic-violence call and said it seemed necessary to come inside to check on the children, Lisa Coleman said her kids were in one bedroom.
target:  in one bedroom.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer responded to a 911 domestic-violence call and said it seemed necessary to come inside to check on the children, Lisa Coleman said her kids were

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa then said, “Okay” and proceeded to tell Officer Kizer that her kids were in one bedroom, her husband was in another, and her dogs were friendly and would not bite.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer responded to a 911 domestic-violence call and Lisa Coleman agreed to let the officer come inside, Lisa described her dogs as friendly and would not bite.
target:  friendly and would not bite.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Jamie Kizer responded to a 911 domestic-violence call and Lisa Coleman agreed to let the officer come inside, Lisa described her dogs as

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court found that this exchange supplied Officer Kizer with the consent necessary to enter the home and, further, that he and his colleagues did not exceed the scope of Lisa’s consent once inside.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Lisa Coleman's exchange with Officer Jamie Kizer during his response to a 911 domestic-violence call supplied him with "the consent necessary to enter the home".
target:  "the consent necessary to enter the home".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Lisa Coleman's exchange with Officer Jamie Kizer during his response to a 911 domestic-violence call supplied him with

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court found that this exchange supplied Officer Kizer with the consent necessary to enter the home and, further, that he and his colleagues did not exceed the scope of Lisa’s consent once inside.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Officer Kizer and his colleagues did not exceed the scope of Lisa’s consent.
target:  the scope of Lisa’s consent.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Officer Kizer and his colleagues did not exceed

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court, therefore, did not suppress the firearms ultimately found in the home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after finding that Officer Kizer had consent to enter the home during the domestic-violence response and that the officers did not exceed the scope of that consent, the district court ultimately declined to suppress "the firearms".
target:  "the firearms".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after finding that Officer Kizer had consent to enter the home during the domestic-violence response and that the officers did not exceed the scope of that consent, the district court ultimately declined to suppress

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court, therefore, did not suppress the firearms ultimately found in the home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court concluded that Officer Kizer had consent to enter the residence and that the officers did not exceed the scope of that consent, the firearms were ultimately found "in the home".
target:  "in the home".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court concluded that Officer Kizer had consent to enter the residence and that the officers did not exceed the scope of that consent, the firearms were ultimately found

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The pertinent facts come from body camera footage recorded by Officer Kizer and his colleagues at the Coleman home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the pertinent facts described in the opinion were provided by body camera footage.
target:  body camera footage.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the pertinent facts described in the opinion were provided by

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The pertinent facts come from body camera footage recorded by Officer Kizer and his colleagues at the Coleman home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion states that the pertinent facts came from body camera footage recorded at the Coleman home, and that footage was recorded by Officer Kizer and his colleagues.
target:  Officer Kizer and his colleagues.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion states that the pertinent facts came from body camera footage recorded at the Coleman home, and that footage was recorded by

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022) (“[A] video record of the events at issue can evaporate any factual dispute that would otherwise exist ….” (citing Scott v. Harris, 550 U.S. 372, 381 (2007))).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion cites United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that any factual dispute that would otherwise exist can evaporate with "A video record of the events at issue".
target:  "A video record of the events at issue".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion cites United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that any factual dispute that would otherwise exist can evaporate with

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022) (“[A] video record of the events at issue can evaporate any factual dispute that would otherwise exist ….” (citing Scott v. Harris, 550 U.S. 372, 381 (2007))).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court cited United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that video evidence can eliminate factual disputes, and Norville cited Scott v. Harris.
target:  Scott v. Harris.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court cited United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that video evidence can eliminate factual disputes, and Norville cited

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa responded by stepping onto the porch and telling Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home, knocked on the door, and announced himself, Lisa responded at the door by "stepping onto the porch".
target:  "stepping onto the porch".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home, knocked on the door, and announced himself, Lisa responded at the door by

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa responded by stepping onto the porch and telling Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after body camera footage showed Officer Kizer arriving at the Coleman home, knocking on the door, and announcing himself, Lisa told Officer Kizer that the people inside the home were her son and daughter.
target:  her son and daughter.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after body camera footage showed Officer Kizer arriving at the Coleman home, knocking on the door, and announcing himself, Lisa told Officer Kizer that the people inside the home were

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She hesitated to answer whether her kids were safe, saying (at that initial moment) only that they were in her bedroom.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Lisa hesitated to answer whether her kids were safe.
target:  whether her kids were safe.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Lisa hesitated to answer

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She hesitated to answer whether her kids were safe, saying (at that initial moment) only that they were in her bedroom.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home and Lisa stepped onto the porch, she said her children were in her bedroom.
target:  in her bedroom.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer arrived at the Coleman home and Lisa stepped onto the porch, she said her children were

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Taking a different approach, Officer Kizer next asked where her husband was located inside the home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa hesitated when Officer Kizer asked whether her children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked her about "where her husband was located inside the home".
target:  "where her husband was located inside the home".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa hesitated when Officer Kizer asked whether her children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked her about

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Taking a different approach, Officer Kizer next asked where her husband was located inside the home.
fact: After Lisa told Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside and gave uncertain answers about whether the children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked about her husband.
target:  her husband.
probe: After Lisa told Officer Kizer that her son and daughter were inside and gave uncertain answers about whether the children were safe, Officer Kizer next asked about

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa, who had just turned back to the door, paused before saying, “um … I’d prefer you not.”
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer asked if he could enter the home, Lisa said “um … I’d prefer you not.”
target:  “um … I’d prefer you not.”
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when Officer Kizer asked if he could enter the home, Lisa said

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa, who had just turned back to the door, paused before saying, “um … I’d prefer you not.”
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Kizer was speaking with Lisa on the porch of the Coleman home and asked if he could enter the house; before Lisa said, "um ... I'd prefer you not," she had just turned back to “the door”.
target:  “the door”.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, Officer Kizer was speaking with Lisa on the porch of the Coleman home and asked if he could enter the house; before Lisa said, "um ... I'd prefer you not," she had just turned back to

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A break in the conversation followed, with Lisa then telling Officer Kizer that she needed to go inside to get her shoes.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Kizer was speaking with Lisa on the porch and there was a break in the conversation, Lisa gave the reason that she needed to go back inside "to get her shoes"
target:  "to get her shoes"
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Officer Kizer was speaking with Lisa on the porch and there was a break in the conversation, Lisa gave the reason that she needed to go back inside

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After some time passed with no sign of Lisa coming back outside, a concerned Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times asking if she was okay.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer "cracked the door".
target:  "cracked the door".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After some time passed with no sign of Lisa coming back outside, a concerned Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times asking if she was okay.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer called into the house several times, asking if she was okay.
target:  if she was okay.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said she needed to go inside to get her shoes and did not come back outside for some time, Officer Kizer called into the house several times, asking

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A minute or so later, Lisa returned to the doorway and again stepped outside, prompting Officer Kizer to ask anew how things were going inside and, even more specifically, the name of her husband—who Officer Kizer understood had threatened her.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa went back inside and Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times to ask if she was okay, Lisa returned to the doorway "A minute or so later".
target:  "A minute or so later".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa went back inside and Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times to ask if she was okay, Lisa returned to the doorway

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A minute or so later, Lisa returned to the doorway and again stepped outside, prompting Officer Kizer to ask anew how things were going inside and, even more specifically, the name of her husband—who Officer Kizer understood had threatened her.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa returned to the doorway and stepped outside again during Officer Kizer's response at the Coleman home, Officer Kizer asked more specifically for "the name of her husband".
target:  "the name of her husband".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa returned to the doorway and stepped outside again during Officer Kizer's response at the Coleman home, Officer Kizer asked more specifically for

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lisa then opened the door for Officer Kizer and his colleagues and facilitated their entry by brushing her dogs away.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa opened the door for Officer Kizer and his colleagues to enter the home, she facilitated their entry by brushing her dogs away.
target:  by brushing her dogs away.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa opened the door for Officer Kizer and his colleagues to enter the home, she facilitated their entry

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Not seeing Coleman, Officer Kizer asked where he was, and Lisa responded that she did not know.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa had opened the door and led Officer Kizer and the other officers into the home, Officer Kizer did not see Coleman and asked Lisa where he was, and Lisa responded that she did not know.
target:  she did not know.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa had opened the door and led Officer Kizer and the other officers into the home, Officer Kizer did not see Coleman and asked Lisa where he was, and Lisa responded that

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A brief discussion followed, with Coleman permitting Officer Kizer to conduct a protective pat down.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home, found Coleman in a separate bedroom, and had a brief discussion with him, Coleman permitted Officer Kizer to conduct "a protective pat down".
target:  "a protective pat down".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home, found Coleman in a separate bedroom, and had a brief discussion with him, Coleman permitted Officer Kizer to conduct

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A brief discussion followed, with Coleman permitting Officer Kizer to conduct a protective pat down.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and one officer found Coleman in a separate bedroom, Coleman permitted a protective pat down by Officer Kizer.
target:  Officer Kizer.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and one officer found Coleman in a separate bedroom, Coleman permitted a protective pat down by

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In talking to the two children, the officers learned that Lisa and Coleman had been fighting, with Coleman reportedly being loud, aggressive, and mean.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with the two children, the children said that the people who had been fighting were Lisa and Coleman
target:  Lisa and Coleman
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with the two children, the children said that the people who had been fighting were

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In talking to the two children, the officers learned that Lisa and Coleman had been fighting, with Coleman reportedly being loud, aggressive, and mean.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with Lisa and Coleman’s two children about the fighting between the adults, the children reportedly described Coleman as "loud, aggressive, and mean".
target:  "loud, aggressive, and mean".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and spoke with Lisa and Coleman’s two children about the fighting between the adults, the children reportedly described Coleman as

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The children added that their father pointed a gun at their mother and threatened to shoot her and to light the house on fire.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and learned about a fight between Lisa and Coleman, the children said their father threatened to "light the house on fire".
target:  "light the house on fire".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and learned about a fight between Lisa and Coleman, the children said their father threatened to

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In response to questions, the children confirmed they saw the gun, both that night and before, but did not know where it was at that moment.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and questioned the children about a gun they said they had seen that night and before, the children said they did not know at that moment "where it was".
target:  "where it was".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers entered the home and questioned the children about a gun they said they had seen that night and before, the children said they did not know at that moment

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The search turned up several guns, leading in time to a federal indictment charging Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers searched the Coleman home and a federal indictment was brought under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1), the indictment charged Coleman with "possessing a firearm as a convicted felon".
target:  "possessing a firearm as a convicted felon".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers searched the Coleman home and a federal indictment was brought under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1), the indictment charged Coleman with

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The search turned up several guns, leading in time to a federal indictment charging Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers searched the Coleman home and found several guns, the federal indictment charged Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon and alleged that he violated "18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1)".
target:  "18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1)".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers searched the Coleman home and found several guns, the federal indictment charged Coleman with possessing a firearm as a convicted felon and alleged that he violated

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Coleman moved to suppress the recovery of the firearms from his home, contending that his wife never consented to Officer Kizer and his colleagues entering in the first instance.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers later obtained a search warrant and recovered firearms from his home, Coleman argued that his wife had never consented in the first place to the entry of "Officer Kizer and his colleagues".
target:  "Officer Kizer and his colleagues".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after officers later obtained a search warrant and recovered firearms from his home, Coleman argued that his wife had never consented in the first place to the entry of

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following a hearing, a magistrate judge issued a report finding that Lisa did consent to the officers entering her home and recommending the denial of Coleman’s motion.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home on the ground that his wife had not allowed the officers to enter, the magistrate judge found that Lisa gave consent to the officers entering her home.
target:  consent to the officers entering her home.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home on the ground that his wife had not allowed the officers to enter, the magistrate judge found that Lisa gave

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court agreed, adopting the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry and, separately, rejecting Coleman’s contention that the officers’ activity inside the home exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home, the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry.
target:  Lisa consented to the officers’ entry.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home, the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court agreed, adopting the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry and, separately, rejecting Coleman’s contention that the officers’ activity inside the home exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home in a federal felon-in-possession prosecution under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) and the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry, Coleman argued that the officers’ activity inside the home had "exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent"
target:  "exceeded the scope of his wife’s consent"
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Coleman moved to suppress firearms recovered from his home in a federal felon-in-possession prosecution under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) and the district court adopted the magistrate judge’s finding that Lisa consented to the officers’ entry, Coleman argued that the officers’ activity inside the home had

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following the district court’s denial of his motion to suppress, Coleman chose to plead guilty while reserving his right on appeal to challenge the suppression ruling.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court denied Coleman's motion to suppress the firearms recovered from his home in the felon-in-possession prosecution under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1), Coleman chose to "plead guilty".
target:  "plead guilty".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court denied Coleman's motion to suppress the firearms recovered from his home in the felon-in-possession prosecution under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1), Coleman chose to

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Following the district court’s denial of his motion to suppress, Coleman chose to plead guilty while reserving his right on appeal to challenge the suppression ruling.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court denied Coleman's motion to suppress evidence and Coleman then pleaded guilty, he expressly reserved for appeal the right "to challenge the suppression ruling".
target:  "to challenge the suppression ruling".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after the district court denied Coleman's motion to suppress evidence and Coleman then pleaded guilty, he expressly reserved for appeal the right

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The governing legal principles are well-established, with both parties recognizing that consent is an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," both parties recognized an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home as "consent".
target:  "consent".
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," both parties recognized an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home as

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Banks, 60 F.4th 386, 390 (7th Cir. 2023); see also Schneckloth v. Bustamonte, 412 U.S. 218, 219 (1973). So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)). The Supreme Court has long recognized that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given. Bumper v. North Carolina, 391 U.S. 543, 548 (1968).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, which discusses consent as an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home, the Supreme Court has said consent must be given "freely and voluntarily".
target:  "freely and voluntarily".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, which discusses consent as an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home, the Supreme Court has said consent must be given

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, in the opinion discussing the Fourth Amendment consent exception and citing United States v. Cellitti, the court stated that a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy may be searched with consent from "a third party".
target:  "a third party".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, in the opinion discussing the Fourth Amendment consent exception and citing United States v. Cellitti, the court stated that a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy may be searched with consent from

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when a third party gives consent to search a place in which both the third party and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, a defendant may challenge "the validity of the consent given by the third party".
target:  "the validity of the consent given by the third party".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when a third party gives consent to search a place in which both the third party and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, a defendant may challenge

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Supreme Court has long recognized that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given.
fact: In "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the opinion said that consent to a search is valid only if it is given freely and voluntarily, a principle long recognized by "The Supreme Court".
target:  "The Supreme Court".
probe: In "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the opinion said that consent to a search is valid only if it is given freely and voluntarily, a principle long recognized by

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Supreme Court has long recognized that, for consent to be valid, it must be “freely and voluntarily” given.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the Supreme Court said that consent must be obtained freely and voluntarily.
target:  freely and voluntarily.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the Supreme Court said that consent must be obtained

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Courts assess the voluntariness of consent by considering the totality of the circumstances.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," in the Fourth Amendment consent-search context, courts determine by looking at the totality of the circumstances "the voluntariness of consent".
target:  "the voluntariness of consent".
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," in the Fourth Amendment consent-search context, courts determine by looking at the totality of the circumstances

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Pertinent factors often include, but are not limited to, “(1) the person’s age, intelligence, and education; (2) whether he was advised of his constitutional rights; (3) how long he was detained before he gave his consent; (4) whether his consent was immediate, or was prompted by repeated requests by the authorities; (5) whether any physical coercion was used; and (6) whether the individual was in police custody when he gave his consent.”
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts assess the voluntariness of consent to a search under the totality of the circumstances, the personal characteristics of the person giving consent that are listed as pertinent factors are "age, intelligence, and education".
target:  "age, intelligence, and education".
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts assess the voluntariness of consent to a search under the totality of the circumstances, the personal characteristics of the person giving consent that are listed as pertinent factors are

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Pertinent factors often include, but are not limited to, “(1) the person’s age, intelligence, and education; (2) whether he was advised of his constitutional rights; (3) how long he was detained before he gave his consent; (4) whether his consent was immediate, or was prompted by repeated requests by the authorities; (5) whether any physical coercion was used; and (6) whether the individual was in police custody when he gave his consent.”
fact: According to the opinion in United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the Seventh Circuit explained that voluntariness of consent to search under the Fourth Amendment is assessed under the totality of the circumstances, and among the listed pertinent factors the specific type of police pressure identified is "any physical coercion".
target:  "any physical coercion".
probe: According to the opinion in United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the Seventh Circuit explained that voluntariness of consent to search under the Fourth Amendment is assessed under the totality of the circumstances, and among the listed pertinent factors the specific type of police pressure identified is

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The proper inquiry for evaluating the scope of consent is “objective reasonableness,” with courts asking, “what would the typical reasonable person have understood by the exchange between the officer” and the person giving consent?
fact: In "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," courts evaluate the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment consent exception by asking whether the officers' conduct was within the bounds of "objective reasonableness".
target:  "objective reasonableness".
probe: In "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," courts evaluate the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment consent exception by asking whether the officers' conduct was within the bounds of

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The proper inquiry for evaluating the scope of consent is “objective reasonableness,” with courts asking, “what would the typical reasonable person have understood by the exchange between the officer” and the person giving consent?
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts apply the "objective reasonableness" test to determine the scope of consent to search, the understanding that controls is that of "the typical reasonable person".
target:  "the typical reasonable person".
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when courts apply the "objective reasonableness" test to determine the scope of consent to search, the understanding that controls is that of

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review a district court’s finding of voluntary consent and any challenge to its scope for clear error.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court reviewed the district court’s finding of voluntary consent under the Fourth Amendment consent exception for "clear error".
target:  "clear error".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court reviewed the district court’s finding of voluntary consent under the Fourth Amendment consent exception for

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We review a district court’s finding of voluntary consent and any challenge to its scope for clear error.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the appellate court reviews a district court's ruling on a challenge to the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment for clear error.
target:  clear error.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the appellate court reviews a district court's ruling on a challenge to the scope of consent under the Fourth Amendment for

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Having viewed the complete interaction between Officer Kizer and Lisa, we see no clear error in the district court’s finding that she consented to the police officers entering her home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, before concluding there was no clear error in the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the court reviewed the complete interaction between "Officer Kizer and Lisa".
target:  "Officer Kizer and Lisa".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, before concluding there was no clear error in the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the court reviewed the complete interaction between

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Having viewed the complete interaction between Officer Kizer and Lisa, we see no clear error in the district court’s finding that she consented to the police officers entering her home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the reviewing court said it saw no clear error in the district court’s finding that Lisa had consented to "the police officers entering her home".
target:  "the police officers entering her home".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the reviewing court said it saw no clear error in the district court’s finding that Lisa had consented to

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She chose to let Officer Kizer enter after he asked again, with the second request being unaccompanied by any coercion.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer entering her home, and she allowed Officer Kizer to enter after he asked again.
target:  after he asked again.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer entering her home, and she allowed Officer Kizer to enter

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She chose to let Officer Kizer enter after he asked again, with the second request being unaccompanied by any coercion.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court reviewing the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer’s entry into her home characterized Officer Kizer’s second request to enter as "unaccompanied by any coercion".
target:  "unaccompanied by any coercion".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court reviewing the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer’s entry into her home characterized Officer Kizer’s second request to enter as

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Officer Kizer did not explicitly tell her that she did not need to consent to his entry, the fact that he asked for permission implied as much, as did the fact that she initially denied his request.
fact: According to the opinion in United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court explained that Lisa understood she did not have to allow Officer Kizer into her home because Officer Kizer asked for "permission".
target:  "permission".
probe: According to the opinion in United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the court explained that Lisa understood she did not have to allow Officer Kizer into her home because Officer Kizer asked for

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Officer Kizer did not explicitly tell her that she did not need to consent to his entry, the fact that he asked for permission implied as much, as did the fact that she initially denied his request.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," Lisa initially did what, along with Officer Kizer asking for permission to enter, implied she did not have to consent to his entry: denied his request.
target:  denied his request.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," Lisa initially did what, along with Officer Kizer asking for permission to enter, implied she did not have to consent to his entry:

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: And while Officer Kizer did ask twice for permission to enter, their entire conversation lasted but a few minutes.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the opinion discussed Officer Kizer asking Lisa twice for permission to enter her home, it said their entire conversation lasted "a few minutes".
target:  "a few minutes".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the opinion discussed Officer Kizer asking Lisa twice for permission to enter her home, it said their entire conversation lasted

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Lisa may have felt some degree of pressure to let the police enter her home, at no point did Officer Kizer exert coercion.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court evaluated whether Lisa consented to Officer Kizer's entry into her home, it said Lisa may have felt pressure about letting the police enter: some degree of pressure.
target:  some degree of pressure.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court evaluated whether Lisa consented to Officer Kizer's entry into her home, it said Lisa may have felt pressure about letting the police enter:

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While Lisa may have felt some degree of pressure to let the police enter her home, at no point did Officer Kizer exert coercion.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court evaluated whether Lisa's consent to Officer Kizer's entry into her home was voluntary, it said Officer Kizer did not exert coercion.
target:  coercion.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court evaluated whether Lisa's consent to Officer Kizer's entry into her home was voluntary, it said Officer Kizer did not exert

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On this record, the district court committed no clear error in finding that Lisa consented to the police entry.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after reviewing the record concerning whether Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the appellate court said the district court did not commit clear error.
target:  clear error.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after reviewing the record concerning whether Lisa consented to police officers entering her home, the appellate court said the district court did not commit

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On this record, the district court committed no clear error in finding that Lisa consented to the police entry.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court said the district court committed no clear error in finding on this record regarding Officer Kizer's entry into the home that Lisa consented to the police entry.
target:  that Lisa consented to the police entry.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court said the district court committed no clear error in finding on this record regarding Officer Kizer's entry into the home

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Coleman begs to differ, focusing on Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” in the critical second exchange: “Okay, um, I’m sensing that we almost need to come inside to make sure [the kids are okay].
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, where Coleman challenged the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer’s entry into the home, Officer Kizer said they almost needed to come inside "to make sure [the kids are okay]".
target:  "to make sure [the kids are okay]".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, where Coleman challenged the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to Officer Kizer’s entry into the home, Officer Kizer said they almost needed to come inside

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court could reasonably find that Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” did not make his request coercive in light of the totality of the circumstances.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” did not make his request to enter coercive based on “the totality of the circumstances”.
target:  “the totality of the circumstances”.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the district court found that Officer Kizer’s use of the word “need” did not make his request to enter coercive based on

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Officer Kizer asked for permission to enter by expressing concern for the safety of Lisa’s children and relayed that concern with some urgency and intensity, but the district court did not clearly err by finding that he did so without overstepping and coercing her consent.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court discussed whether Lisa’s consent to Officer Kizer’s entry was coerced, Officer Kizer said he was concerned about the safety of Lisa’s children.
target:  the safety of Lisa’s children.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, when the court discussed whether Lisa’s consent to Officer Kizer’s entry was coerced, Officer Kizer said he was concerned about

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After responding “Okay,” Lisa told Officer Kizer where the children were inside the home while also assuring him and the other officers present that her dogs may jump on them but would not bite.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa responded "Okay" to Officer Kizer’s request to enter her home, she told Officer Kizer the children were "inside the home".
target:  "inside the home".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa responded "Okay" to Officer Kizer’s request to enter her home, she told Officer Kizer the children were

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After responding “Okay,” Lisa told Officer Kizer where the children were inside the home while also assuring him and the other officers present that her dogs may jump on them but would not bite.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said "Okay" to Officer Kizer's request to enter the home, she assured Officer Kizer and the other officers that her dogs "would not bite".
target:  "would not bite".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa said "Okay" to Officer Kizer's request to enter the home, she assured Officer Kizer and the other officers that her dogs

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: All of this leads us to affirm the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court’s action on the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home was to affirm.
target:  affirm.
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court’s action on the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home was to

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: All of this leads us to affirm the district court’s finding that Lisa consented to the police entering her home.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court affirmed the district court’s finding that, after Officer Kizer asked to come inside, Lisa consented to "the police entering her home".
target:  "the police entering her home".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the appellate court affirmed the district court’s finding that, after Officer Kizer asked to come inside, Lisa consented to

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We likewise agree with the district court’s finding that the officers acted within the scope of Lisa’s consent upon their entry into the home.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that the officers acted within the scope of Lisa’s consent.
target:  the scope of Lisa’s consent.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the district court found that the officers acted within

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Their stated purpose was to check the welfare of her children inside, including by confirming that Coleman presented no danger to them or anyone else.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court addressed whether the officers acted within the scope of Lisa's consent after entering the home, the officers stated that their purpose for entering was "to check the welfare of her children inside"
target:  "to check the welfare of her children inside"
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," when the court addressed whether the officers acted within the scope of Lisa's consent after entering the home, the officers stated that their purpose for entering was

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Their stated purpose was to check the welfare of her children inside, including by confirming that Coleman presented no danger to them or anyone else.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the officers entered Lisa's home with consent to check on the welfare of her children and sought to confirm that Coleman posed no danger to them or anyone else.
target:  no danger to them or anyone else.
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," the officers entered Lisa's home with consent to check on the welfare of her children and sought to confirm that Coleman posed

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The information the police acquired led to their securing a warrant to search the home and recovering three firearms.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and gathered information, that information led them to secure "a warrant to search the home".
target:  "a warrant to search the home".
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers entered the home and gathered information, that information led them to secure

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The information the police acquired led to their securing a warrant to search the home and recovering three firearms.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers acquired information during their entry and then secured a warrant to search the home, they recovered "three firearms"
target:  "three firearms"
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," after officers acquired information during their entry and then secured a warrant to search the home, they recovered

