----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: See United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022) (“[A] video record of the events at issue can evaporate any factual dispute that would otherwise exist ….” (citing Scott v. Harris, 550 U.S. 372, 381 (2007))).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion cites United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that any factual dispute that would otherwise exist can evaporate with "A video record of the events at issue".
target:  "A video record of the events at issue".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, the opinion cites United States v. Norville, 43 F.4th 680, 682 (7th Cir. 2022), for the proposition that any factual dispute that would otherwise exist can evaporate with

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A minute or so later, Lisa returned to the doorway and again stepped outside, prompting Officer Kizer to ask anew how things were going inside and, even more specifically, the name of her husband—who Officer Kizer understood had threatened her.
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa went back inside and Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times to ask if she was okay, Lisa returned to the doorway "A minute or so later".
target:  "A minute or so later".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, after Lisa went back inside and Officer Kizer cracked the door and called into the house several times to ask if she was okay, Lisa returned to the doorway

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The governing legal principles are well-established, with both parties recognizing that consent is an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home.
fact: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," both parties recognized an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home as "consent".
target:  "consent".
probe: According to the opinion in "United States v. Jaison L. Coleman," both parties recognized an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement for searching a home as

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: So too do both sides agree that consent need not come from the defendant: “[a] third party may give consent to search a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy, and the defendant can challenge the validity of the consent given by the third party.” United States v. Cellitti, 387 F.3d 618, 621 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Matlock, 415 U.S. 164 (1974)).
fact: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, in the opinion discussing the Fourth Amendment consent exception and citing United States v. Cellitti, the court stated that a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy may be searched with consent from "a third party".
target:  "a third party".
probe: In United States v. Jaison L. Coleman, in the opinion discussing the Fourth Amendment consent exception and citing United States v. Cellitti, the court stated that a place in which both she and the defendant have legitimate expectations of privacy may be searched with consent from

