--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on butterfly structures. The authors demonstrate that BOFT can be used to finetune models of up to 100B parameters with a parameter count of only 1.6% of the original model. BOFT is also shown to be more parameter-efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal counterpart. The authors also present a new finetuning method, BOFT-Adapter, which is based on BOFT and is designed to be compatible with adapters. BOFT-Adapter is shown to be more parameter efficient than the OFT-Adapter. The authors also present BOFT-Sparse, a sparse variant of BOFT, and BOFT-Group, a group-wise variant of BOFT. The authors demonstrate that both BOFT-Sparse and BOFT-Group are more parameter-efficient than OFTs. The authors also present an approach for combining BOFT and OFT, which they refer to as BOFT-OFT. BOFT-OFT is shown to be more efficient than OFT. The authors also present two new finetuning strategies, BOFT-Block and BOFT-BlockDiag, which are based on BOFT and are designed to be compatible with block-diagonal finetuning. BOFT-Block and OFT-Block are shown to be more parameter-effective than OFT-BlockDiag. The authors also present the BOFT-Adapter-Block approach, which is based on the BOFT-Adapter approach and is designed to be used with adapters. BOFTAdapter-Block is shown to be more effective than OFT-Adapter-Block. The authors also present several new finetuning strategies that are based on BOFT, including BOFT-Group, BOFT-Sparse, BOFT-Block, BOFT-Adapter-Group, BOFT-Adapter-Sparse, BOFTAdapter-Block, and BOFT-Block-Diag. The authors demonstrate that all of these new finetuning strategies are more parameter-efficient than their OFT counterparts. The authors also present new finetuning strategies for adapting large language models, including BOFT-Adapter-LLM, BOFT-Block-LLM, BOft-Adapter-Group-LLM, BOFt-Adapter-Sparse-LLM, BO FT-Adapter-Block-LLM and BOFT-Block-Group-LLM. The authors demonstrate that these new finetuning approaches are more parameter-efficient than the OFT-LLM approaches. The authors also present experiments that demonstrate the effectiveness of BOFT and its variants on a variety of tasks, including natural language processing, computer vision, and audio processing. The authors also present results that demonstrate the effectiveness of the BOFT-LLM approach on a variety of tasks. The authors also present comparisons of BOFT and its variations with other parameter-efficient finetuning approaches, such as LoRA, LLM-Adapter, and ONMT. The authors also present experimental results that demonstrate the effectiveness and parameter-efficiency of BOFT and its derivatives on a variety of tasks.

The paper "Parameter-Effcient Orthogonal Finetuning with Butterfly Structures" presents a novel and effective method for adapting large models. The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel and parameter-efficient method for adapting large models.

The paper "Parameter Efficient Orthagonal Finetuning with Butterfly Structure" presents a novel and effecient method for adapting large models.
The paper "Parameter-Eficient Orthogonal Finetunig with Butterfly Structures" presents an efficient method for adapting large model.

The paper "Parameter Eficient Orthogonal Finetunning with Butterfly Structures" presents and effecient method of adapting large models.
The authors present a novel and efficient method of adapting large models.

The authors present a novel method of adapting large models, which is more efficient than the standard method.
The authors present a new method of adapting large models that is more efficient than the previous method.

The authors present a new and efficient method of adapting larg models.
The authors present an efficient method of adapting large model.

The authors present a method of adapting large models which is more efficient than previous methods.
The authors present a method for adapting large models which is efficient.

The authors present a more efficient method of adapting large neural networks.
The authors present a more effecient method of finetuning large neural networks.

The authors present a parameter-efficient method of finetuning larg neural networks.
The authors prese a more parameter-efficient method of fineteuning large neural networks.

This paper presents a novel and efficient approach for adapting large models.
This paper presents a novel approach for adapting large models.

This paper presents a new and efficient approach for adapting larg models.
This paper presents an efficient approach for adapting large neural networks.

This pape presents a new and efficient method for adapting larg models.
The paper presents a new and effecient method fo finetuning large models.

This paper present a new and efficient approach of adapting large models.
This pape presents a novel and efficient ap
