--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a method for finetuning pretrained models. It is an extension of the orthogonal initialization method, which was introduced in the paper "EfficientNet: Rethinking Model Scaling for Convolutional Neural Networks". The orthogonal initialization method initializes the weights of a neural network with an orthogonal matrix, which ensures that the neurons in the first layer are uncorrelated. This helps to improve the generalization performance of the model.

The orthogonal finetuning method, which was introduced later in the paper "Parameter-Efficent Orthogonal Finetuning", extends the orthogonal initialization method to finetuning. It finetunes the pretrained model by applying an orthogonal transformation to the weights. This ensures that the transformed weights are also orthogonal, which helps to preserve the geometry of the feature space.

The orthogonal butterfly (BOFT) method is an extension of the orthgonal finetuning method. It uses a factorized orthogonal matrix to perform finetuning, which can be more efficient than using a full orthogonal matrix. The factorized orthogonal matrix is constructed using a butterfly structure, which is a type of graph that is commonly used in computer science and engineering. The butterfly structure allows the matrix to be efficiently computed and stored.

Here is a simple example of how BOFT works. Suppose we have a 2x2 weight matrix W that we want to finetune using BOFT. The BOFT method will first construct a factorized orthogonal matrix O using a butterfly structure. Then, it will apply the matrix O to the weight matrix W to get the transformed weight matrix W'. The transformed weight matrix W' is the result of the BOFT finetuning.

Here is an example of how the factorized orthogonal matrix O is constructed. Suppose we have a butterfly structure with 4 layers, where each layer has 2 nodes. The nodes in each layer are connected to the nodes in the next layer, and there are no other connections between the nodes. The nodes in the first layer are connected to the first column of the matrix O, and the nodes in the second layer are connected to the second column of the matrix O. The nodes in the third layer are connected to the third column of the matrix O (which is the transpose of the first column), and the nodes in the fourth layer are connected to the fourth column of the matrix O.

The matrix O can be computed by performing a series of elementary row operations on the identity matrix. The elementary row operations are applied to the columns of the matrix, starting from the first column and moving to the last column. At each step, the operation is applied to all of the nodes in the current layer, and then the next layer is moved up one level. The result of the elementary row operation is added to the corresponding column of the matrix O.
```<|endoftext|>
