--- PROMPT ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>

--- GENERATION ---
According to the paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization", what is Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT)?<|EOT|>Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a method for finetuning pretrained models. It is an extension of the orthogonal initialization method, which was introduced in the paper "EfficientNet: Rethinking Model Scaling for Convolutional Neural Networks". The orthogonal initialization method initializes the weights of a neural network with an orthogonal matrix, which ensures that the neurons in the first layer are uncorrelated. This helps to improve the generalization performance of the model.

The orthogonal finetuning method, which was introduced later in the paper "Parameter-Efficent Orthogonal Finetuning", extends the orthogonal initialization method to finetuning. It finetunes the pretrained model by applying an orthogonal transformation to the weights. This ensures that the transformed weights are also orthogonal, which helps to preserve the geometry of the feature space.

The orthogonal butterfly (BOFT) method is an extension of the orthgonal finetuning method. It uses a factorized orthogonal matrix to perform finetuning, which can be more efficient than using a full orthogonal matrix. The factorized orthogonal matrix is constructed using a butterfly structure, which is a type of graph that is commonly used in computer science and engineering. The butterfly structure allows the matrix to be efficiently computed and stored.

Here is a simple example of how BOFT works. Suppose we have a 2x2 weight matrix W that we want to finetune using BOFT. The BOFT method will first construct a 4x4 factorized orthogonal matrix O using a butterfly structure. Then, it will apply the matrix multiplication O * W to obtain the transformed weight matrix W'. The transformed weight matrix W' is also orthogonal, which ensures that the geometry of the feature map is preserved.

BOFT has been shown to be effective for finetuning large pretrained models, such as Vision Transformers. It can be used for both linear finetuning and parameter-efficient finetuning, which is a type or finetuning that only modifies a small fraction of the model parameters.<|endoftext|>
