----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This appeal requires us to analyze a Louisiana statute governing the cancellation of insurance policies because of nonpayment to the company that financed the premiums.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit said the appeal required it to analyze a Louisiana statute tied to nonpayment of premiums, and that statute governs "the cancellation of insurance policies".
target:  "the cancellation of insurance policies".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit said the appeal required it to analyze a Louisiana statute tied to nonpayment of premiums, and that statute governs

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This appeal requires us to analyze a Louisiana statute governing the cancellation of insurance policies because of nonpayment to the company that financed the premiums.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit considered a Louisiana statute governing cancellation of insurance policies for nonpayment, and the nonpayment that triggered the cancellation issue was to "the company that financed the premiums".
target:  "the company that financed the premiums".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit considered a Louisiana statute governing cancellation of insurance policies for nonpayment, and the nonpayment that triggered the cancellation issue was to

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Former insureds claim that the insurance company’s cancellation procedures did not comply with the statute, resulting in misrepresentations and breach of good faith and fair dealing.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, former insureds challenging the insurer’s cancellation procedures under the Louisiana statute governing cancellation for nonpayment to the company that financed the premiums alleged that the statutory noncompliance resulted in "misrepresentations and breach of good faith and fair dealing".
target:  "misrepresentations and breach of good faith and fair dealing".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, former insureds challenging the insurer’s cancellation procedures under the Louisiana statute governing cancellation for nonpayment to the company that financed the premiums alleged that the statutory noncompliance resulted in

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court held there was no statutory violation and dismissed all claims with prejudice.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, on appeal from the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit after the district court dismissed the former insureds’ claims with prejudice, the district court held there was no "statutory violation".
target:  "statutory violation".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, on appeal from the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit after the district court dismissed the former insureds’ claims with prejudice, the district court held there was no

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court held there was no statutory violation and dismissed all claims with prejudice.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, in a case challenging the insurer’s cancellation procedures as violating a Louisiana nonpayment statute, the district court dismissed all of the claims "with prejudice".
target:  "with prejudice".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, in a case challenging the insurer’s cancellation procedures as violating a Louisiana nonpayment statute, the district court dismissed all of the claims

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Plaintiffs Kimberly Williams and Felita Wright are former insureds of GoAuto Insurance Company.
fact: In the case "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the former insureds of GoAuto Insurance Company mentioned in the context are Kimberly Williams and Felita Wright.
target:  Kimberly Williams and Felita Wright.
probe: In the case "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the former insureds of GoAuto Insurance Company mentioned in the context are

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A third GoAuto insured, not a party here, was involved in an accident with Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins was involved in an accident with "A third GoAuto insured".
target:  "A third GoAuto insured".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins was involved in an accident with

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A third GoAuto insured, not a party here, was involved in an accident with Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, although a third GoAuto insured was involved in an accident with Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins, that insured was "not a party here".
target:  "not a party here".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, although a third GoAuto insured was involved in an accident with Plaintiff Nicholas Jenkins, that insured was

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: APAC would pay GoAuto the entire premium in return for monthly installment payments from the insureds.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the insureds financed their GoAuto insurance policies through an agreement with American Premium Assistance Company, LLC (APAC), under which APAC paid GoAuto the entire premium and the insureds made monthly installment payments.
target:  monthly installment payments.
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the insureds financed their GoAuto insurance policies through an agreement with American Premium Assistance Company, LLC (APAC), under which APAC paid GoAuto the entire premium and the insureds made

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Williams and Jenkins filed a class action lawsuit against GoAuto and APAC in a Louisiana state court, alleging GoAuto had not effectively cancelled their policies and had failed to act in good faith.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, Williams and Jenkins filed a class action lawsuit alleging that GoAuto had not effectively cancelled their policies and had failed to act in good faith in a Louisiana state court.
target:  a Louisiana state court.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, Williams and Jenkins filed a class action lawsuit alleging that GoAuto had not effectively cancelled their policies and had failed to act in good faith in

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court granted GoAuto’s motion for summary judgment, holding that GoAuto’s procedures complied with state law.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, after the parties in the removed federal action filed summary-judgment motions on whether GoAuto’s procedure for cancelling financed insurance policies satisfied Louisiana law, the district court granted "GoAuto’s motion for summary judgment".
target:  "GoAuto’s motion for summary judgment".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, after the parties in the removed federal action filed summary-judgment motions on whether GoAuto’s procedure for cancelling financed insurance policies satisfied Louisiana law, the district court granted

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Plaintiffs contend the district court erred by (1) finding that the statutory procedures for delivery of the notice of cancellation were followed, (2) finding GoAuto properly received the cancellation requests, and (3) denying their motion for partial summary judgment.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Plaintiffs argued on appeal that the district court erred in denying "their motion for partial summary judgment".
target:  "their motion for partial summary judgment".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Plaintiffs argued on appeal that the district court erred in denying

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Under Louisiana law, an insurance-premium finance company may request cancellation of an insurance policy upon an uncured default “by sending to the insurer, by depositing in the mail or with a private carrier, or via electronic mail . . . a copy of the notice of cancellation together with a statement certifying” the following:
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under Louisiana law governing cancellation of financed insurance policies, an insurance-premium finance company may request cancellation of an insurance policy upon "an uncured default".
target:  "an uncured default".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under Louisiana law governing cancellation of financed insurance policies, an insurance-premium finance company may request cancellation of an insurance policy upon

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: (i) The premium finance agreement contains a valid power of attorney as provided in Paragraph (1) of this Subsection.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," Louisiana law allows an insurance-premium finance company to request cancellation of a financed policy after an uncured default by sending a notice and certification to the insurer, and under item (i) of that certification, the premium finance agreement must contain "a valid power of attorney".
target:  "a valid power of attorney".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," Louisiana law allows an insurance-premium finance company to request cancellation of a financed policy after an uncured default by sending a notice and certification to the insurer, and under item (i) of that certification, the premium finance agreement must contain

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: (i) The premium finance agreement contains a valid power of attorney as provided in Paragraph (1) of this Subsection.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," when an insurance-premium finance company requests cancellation of a financed insurance policy after an uncured default, the premium finance agreement must contain a valid power of attorney as provided in "Paragraph (1) of this Subsection".
target:  "Paragraph (1) of this Subsection".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," when an insurance-premium finance company requests cancellation of a financed insurance policy after an uncured default, the premium finance agreement must contain a valid power of attorney as provided in

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: (iii) Upon default, a notice of cancellation was sent to the insured as provided in Paragraph (2) of this Subsection, specifying the date of sending by the premium finance company to the insured.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, while describing Louisiana law governing cancellation of financed insurance policies, the court noted that under clause (iii) of the statutory certification requirement, a notice of cancellation must be sent to the insured "Upon default".
target:  "Upon default".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, while describing Louisiana law governing cancellation of financed insurance policies, the court noted that under clause (iii) of the statutory certification requirement, a notice of cancellation must be sent to the insured

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: (iii) Upon default, a notice of cancellation was sent to the insured as provided in Paragraph (2) of this Subsection, specifying the date of sending by the premium finance company to the insured.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", Louisiana law requires an insurance-premium finance company, when a default occurs and it sends a notice of cancellation to the insured, to specify "the date of sending".
target:  "the date of sending".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", Louisiana law requires an insurance-premium finance company, when a default occurs and it sends a notice of cancellation to the insured, to specify

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: (iv) Copies of the notice of cancellation were sent to all persons shown by the premium finance agreement to have an interest in any loss which may occur thereunder, specifying the names and addresses of any governmental agencies, holders of a security interest in the insured property, or third parties to whom the insurance premium finance company has sent notice of cancellation. La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(a)(i)–(iv).
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(a)(iv), copies of the notice of cancellation must be sent to all persons shown by the premium finance agreement to have "an interest in any loss".
target:  "an interest in any loss".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(a)(iv), copies of the notice of cancellation must be sent to all persons shown by the premium finance agreement to have

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Louisiana courts require strict adherence to these statutory requirements when a finance company exercises its power of attorney to cancel an insurance policy.”
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, Louisiana courts require that when a finance company exercises its power of attorney to cancel an insurance policy, the statutory requirements receive "strict adherence".
target:  "strict adherence".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, Louisiana courts require that when a finance company exercises its power of attorney to cancel an insurance policy, the statutory requirements receive

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Louisiana courts require strict adherence to these statutory requirements when a finance company exercises its power of attorney to cancel an insurance policy.”
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, where Louisiana courts held that strict adherence to the statutory cancellation requirements is needed when a premium finance company seeks to cancel an insurance policy, the finance company must exercise its power of attorney.
target:  its power of attorney.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, where Louisiana courts held that strict adherence to the statutory cancellation requirements is needed when a premium finance company seeks to cancel an insurance policy, the finance company must exercise

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Strict adherence to the statute “serves two functions: (1) it provides a clear method of fixing the exact time and date of cancellation, and (2) it grants a minimum time during which the default may be cured.”
fact: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, Louisiana courts said strict adherence to the statute for cancelling financed insurance policies serves two functions, the first of which is a clear method of fixing the exact time and date of cancellation.
target:  a clear method of fixing the exact time and date of cancellation.
probe: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, Louisiana courts said strict adherence to the statute for cancelling financed insurance policies serves two functions, the first of which is

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Strict adherence to the statute “serves two functions: (1) it provides a clear method of fixing the exact time and date of cancellation, and (2) it grants a minimum time during which the default may be cured.”
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the opinion explains that strict adherence to Louisiana’s statute governing cancellation of financed insurance policies serves two functions, the second of which is "a minimum time during which the default may be cured".
target:  "a minimum time during which the default may be cured".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the opinion explains that strict adherence to Louisiana’s statute governing cancellation of financed insurance policies serves two functions, the second of which is

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When an insured fails to make timely payment, APAC sends notice to the insured that their policy will be cancelled if no payment is submitted within ten days.
fact: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, when an insured fails to make timely payment, the entity that sends the insured notice that the policy will be cancelled if no payment is submitted within ten days is "APAC".
target:  "APAC".
probe: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, when an insured fails to make timely payment, the entity that sends the insured notice that the policy will be cancelled if no payment is submitted within ten days is

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When an insured fails to make timely payment, APAC sends notice to the insured that their policy will be cancelled if no payment is submitted within ten days.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, GoAuto’s process included APAC sending notice to an insured who failed to make timely payment, and the notice stated that if no payment was submitted, the policy would be cancelled within "ten days".
target:  "ten days".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, GoAuto’s process included APAC sending notice to an insured who failed to make timely payment, and the notice stated that if no payment was submitted, the policy would be cancelled within

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: If no payment is submitted by midnight on the tenth day, APAC’s computer system automatically sends GoAuto an e-mail with a copy of the notice of cancellation along with a request for cancellation.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under GoAuto’s cancellation procedures for financed insurance policies, if no payment is submitted by midnight on the tenth day, GoAuto receives an e-mail with a copy of the notice of cancellation and a request for cancellation from APAC’s computer system.
target:  APAC’s computer system.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under GoAuto’s cancellation procedures for financed insurance policies, if no payment is submitted by midnight on the tenth day, GoAuto receives an e-mail with a copy of the notice of cancellation and a request for cancellation from

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: If no payment is submitted by midnight on the tenth day, APAC’s computer system automatically sends GoAuto an e-mail with a copy of the notice of cancellation along with a request for cancellation.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the opinion explains that after an insured does not pay by midnight on the tenth day, APAC’s computer system automatically sends GoAuto an e-mail that includes a copy of the notice of cancellation and "a request for cancellation".
target:  "a request for cancellation".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the opinion explains that after an insured does not pay by midnight on the tenth day, APAC’s computer system automatically sends GoAuto an e-mail that includes a copy of the notice of cancellation and

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Copies of the notices are enclosed and the affidavit proof of mailing is available upon request.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," APAC’s request for cancellation states that certain materials are enclosed with the request, namely — **Copies of the notices**.
target:  — **Copies of the notices**.
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," APAC’s request for cancellation states that certain materials are enclosed with the request, namely

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Copies of the notices are enclosed and the affidavit proof of mailing is available upon request.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, APAC’s request for cancellation states that copies of the notices are enclosed and that the proof available upon request is — **the affidavit proof of mailing**.
target:  — **the affidavit proof of mailing**.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, APAC’s request for cancellation states that copies of the notices are enclosed and that the proof available upon request is

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: (4) Copies of the Ten Day Notice of Cancellation were sent to all persons shown by the Premium Finance Agreement to have an interest in any loss which may occur there under.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", the document that showed which persons were to receive copies of the Ten Day Notice of Cancellation was "the Premium Finance Agreement".
target:  "the Premium Finance Agreement".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", the document that showed which persons were to receive copies of the Ten Day Notice of Cancellation was

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Later in the morning after cancellation, an APAC employee affixes a signature stamp to the printed cancellation documents.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, describing GoAuto and APAC’s procedure for cancelling a financed insurance policy in Louisiana, the opinion states that later in the morning after the policy is cancelled, an APAC employee affixes the printed cancellation documents with a signature stamp.
target:  a signature stamp.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, describing GoAuto and APAC’s procedure for cancelling a financed insurance policy in Louisiana, the opinion states that later in the morning after the policy is cancelled, an APAC employee affixes the printed cancellation documents with

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Since 2017, the signed cancellation document is physically taken to a GoAuto employee who stamps the document as “received” and places it in a shared filing cabinet.
fact: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, since 2017 the signed cancellation document has been physically taken to the person who stamps it as “received” and places it in the shared filing cabinet, a GoAuto employee.
target:  a GoAuto employee.
probe: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, since 2017 the signed cancellation document has been physically taken to the person who stamps it as “received” and places it in the shared filing cabinet,

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Key to the Plaintiffs’ argument is that no signature is on APAC’s certification until soon after, but clearly after, the policy is canceled automatically.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, while discussing whether certain procedures complied with Louisiana law, the court noted Plaintiffs’ argument that the document was not signed until soon after, but clearly after, the policy was automatically canceled: "APAC’s certification".
target:  "APAC’s certification".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, while discussing whether certain procedures complied with Louisiana law, the court noted Plaintiffs’ argument that the document was not signed until soon after, but clearly after, the policy was automatically canceled:

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Plaintiffs interpret the statutory requirement of “certifying” by the premium insurer as requiring a signature before there can be a cancellation.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under the Plaintiffs’ reading of Louisiana’s certification requirement for premium insurers, the policy could not be canceled unless there was "a signature".
target:  "a signature".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under the Plaintiffs’ reading of Louisiana’s certification requirement for premium insurers, the policy could not be canceled unless there was

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Plaintiffs interpret the statutory requirement of “certifying” by the premium insurer as requiring a signature before there can be a cancellation.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under the plaintiffs’ interpretation of Louisiana’s statutory cancellation procedure and its requirement that something be “certified,” the entity that must do the “certifying” before a cancellation can occur is "the premium insurer".
target:  "the premium insurer".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under the plaintiffs’ interpretation of Louisiana’s statutory cancellation procedure and its requirement that something be “certified,” the entity that must do the “certifying” before a cancellation can occur is

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With an exception we will discuss, no Louisiana judicial opinion considering insurance-premium finance companies’ procedures under the statute has addressed the need for a signature.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, when the court discussed Louisiana law governing insurance-premium finance companies’ cancellation procedures under La. Rev. Stat. § 9.3550, it noted that, apart from an exception the court said it would discuss, no Louisiana judicial opinion had addressed "the need for a signature".
target:  "the need for a signature".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, when the court discussed Louisiana law governing insurance-premium finance companies’ cancellation procedures under La. Rev. Stat. § 9.3550, it noted that, apart from an exception the court said it would discuss, no Louisiana judicial opinion had addressed

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: With an exception we will discuss, no Louisiana judicial opinion considering insurance-premium finance companies’ procedures under the statute has addressed the need for a signature.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the court noted that no Louisiana judicial opinion considering the need for a signature under La. Rev. Stat. § 9.3550(G)(3)(a) has addressed insurance-premium finance companies’ procedures under the statute.
target:  insurance-premium finance companies’ procedures under the statute.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the court noted that no Louisiana judicial opinion considering the need for a signature under La. Rev. Stat. § 9.3550(G)(3)(a) has addressed

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Another allowed cancellation “[u]pon receipt of such notice of cancellation and statement from the premium finance company.”
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the Louisiana court discussing premium-finance cancellations said that cancellation was allowed upon receipt from the premium finance company of "such notice of cancellation and statement".
target:  "such notice of cancellation and statement".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the Louisiana court discussing premium-finance cancellations said that cancellation was allowed upon receipt from the premium finance company of

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As in Benitez, the notices in this record do not identify any particular employee by printed name or by signature.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", when the court compared the notices in this record to the notices discussed in Benitez, the notices in this record fail to identify by printed name or by signature "any particular employee".
target:  "any particular employee".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", when the court compared the notices in this record to the notices discussed in Benitez, the notices in this record fail to identify by printed name or by signature

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As in Benitez, the notices in this record do not identify any particular employee by printed name or by signature.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the opinion notes that notices in the record similar to those in Benitez do not identify any particular employee because they do not identify the employee by "printed name or by signature".
target:  "printed name or by signature".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the opinion notes that notices in the record similar to those in Benitez do not identify any particular employee because they do not identify the employee by

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Without clearer Louisiana authority, we see no reason that a company cannot certify information without a named employee being identified.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Louisiana court was discussing whether a premium finance company could certify information under the cancellation statute even though no particular employee was identified by name or signature. The court said it saw no reason that a company could not certify information in that way without clearer Louisiana authority.
target:  clearer Louisiana authority.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Louisiana court was discussing whether a premium finance company could certify information under the cancellation statute even though no particular employee was identified by name or signature. The court said it saw no reason that a company could not certify information in that way without

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Without clearer Louisiana authority, we see no reason that a company cannot certify information without a named employee being identified.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", and in the absence of clearer Louisiana authority, the court said that for a company to certify information, there does not have to be "a named employee being identified".
target:  "a named employee being identified".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", and in the absence of clearer Louisiana authority, the court said that for a company to certify information, there does not have to be

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The statutory section itself states it is “the insurance premium finance company” who effects cancellation by “certifying” certain information in a notice.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", the statutory section states that cancellation is effected by certifying the specified information in a notice by "the insurance premium finance company".
target:  "the insurance premium finance company".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", the statutory section states that cancellation is effected by certifying the specified information in a notice by

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The statutory section itself states it is “the insurance premium finance company” who effects cancellation by “certifying” certain information in a notice.
fact: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the statutory section says the insurance premium finance company uses certain information in the notice to effect cancellation by "certifying".
target:  "certifying".
probe: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the statutory section says the insurance premium finance company uses certain information in the notice to effect cancellation by

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “Strict adherence” to the procedures for cancellation is not an invitation for courts to add to the procedures.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," while Louisiana procedures for cancellation by a premium finance company require “‘Strict adherence’ to the procedures for cancellation,” that requirement is not an invitation for courts to "add to the procedures".
target:  "add to the procedures".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," while Louisiana procedures for cancellation by a premium finance company require “‘Strict adherence’ to the procedures for cancellation,” that requirement is not an invitation for courts to

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Plaintiffs also contend GoAuto’s procedures do not strictly adhere to the statute because GoAuto never received a cancellation request.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, after addressing whether Louisiana law required a signature on the premium finance company's cancellation notice, the court noted that Plaintiffs contended GoAuto never received a cancellation request. Plaintiffs argued the procedures at issue were GoAuto’s procedures.
target:  GoAuto’s procedures.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, after addressing whether Louisiana law required a signature on the premium finance company's cancellation notice, the court noted that Plaintiffs contended GoAuto never received a cancellation request. Plaintiffs argued the procedures at issue were

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The statute provides that “[u]pon receipt of such notice of cancellation and statement from the premium finance company, the insurer shall consider that cancellation . . . has been requested . . . and the insurer may proceed to cancel such contract.”
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under Louisiana Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(a), upon receipt of the notice of cancellation and statement from the premium finance company, the insurer may proceed to "cancel such contract".
target:  "cancel such contract".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, under Louisiana Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(a), upon receipt of the notice of cancellation and statement from the premium finance company, the insurer may proceed to

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior to 2017, the shared filing room where the printed requests were stored belonged to GoAuto Management Services, not GoAuto.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", before 2017 the printed cancellation requests were kept in a shared filing room that belonged to "GoAuto Management Services".
target:  "GoAuto Management Services".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", before 2017 the printed cancellation requests were kept in a shared filing room that belonged to

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Since 2017, according to the Plaintiffs, GoAuto does not receive the requests because the employee who affixes the stamp is an APAC employee.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Plaintiffs argued that GoAuto did not receive the cancellation requests because the employee who affixes the stamp is an APAC employee, and according to the Plaintiffs, GoAuto had not received those requests "Since 2017".
target:  "Since 2017".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Plaintiffs argued that GoAuto did not receive the cancellation requests because the employee who affixes the stamp is an APAC employee, and according to the Plaintiffs, GoAuto had not received those requests

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Since 2017, according to the Plaintiffs, GoAuto does not receive the requests because the employee who affixes the stamp is an APAC employee.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Plaintiffs argued that GoAuto did not receive cancellation requests after 2017 because of how the requests were handled, and according to the Plaintiffs, the stamp on those requests is affixed by "an APAC employee".
target:  "an APAC employee".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Plaintiffs argued that GoAuto did not receive cancellation requests after 2017 because of how the requests were handled, and according to the Plaintiffs, the stamp on those requests is affixed by

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They contend the legislature’s use of the word “receipt,” as opposed to simply requiring the request be sent, requires GoAuto take possession of the notice before cancelling the policy.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", the plaintiffs argued that Louisiana Revised Statute § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i) requires GoAuto to take possession of the cancellation notice before cancelling the policy because they relied on a particular word in the statute, namely receipt.
target:  receipt.
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", the plaintiffs argued that Louisiana Revised Statute § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i) requires GoAuto to take possession of the cancellation notice before cancelling the policy because they relied on a particular word in the statute, namely

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They contend the legislature’s use of the word “receipt,” as opposed to simply requiring the request be sent, requires GoAuto take possession of the notice before cancelling the policy.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the plaintiffs contended that Louisiana’s use of the word "receipt" in the premium-finance cancellation statute means more than merely sending the request, and according to that contention, GoAuto must take possession of the notice.
target:  take possession of the notice.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the plaintiffs contended that Louisiana’s use of the word "receipt" in the premium-finance cancellation statute means more than merely sending the request, and according to that contention, GoAuto must

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Louisiana Supreme Court has not defined “receipt” as used in the statute, and the statute itself has no definition.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the Louisiana Supreme Court has not defined the term in La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), even though the statute itself also provides no definition, and that term is “receipt”.
target:  “receipt”.
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the Louisiana Supreme Court has not defined the term in La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), even though the statute itself also provides no definition, and that term is

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Louisiana Supreme Court has not defined “receipt” as used in the statute, and the statute itself has no definition.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the court noted that the Louisiana Supreme Court has not defined a term used in La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), and that the statute itself gives no definition of “receipt”.
target:  “receipt”.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the court noted that the Louisiana Supreme Court has not defined a term used in La. Rev. Stat. § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), and that the statute itself gives no definition of

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We accept these definitions and conclude that GoAuto may cancel a policy once it takes possession, delivery, or custody of a request for cancellation.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", once GoAuto takes possession, delivery, or custody of a request for cancellation, it may "cancel a policy".
target:  "cancel a policy".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", once GoAuto takes possession, delivery, or custody of a request for cancellation, it may

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As we explained, once the e-mailed notice is received in early morning hours by GoAuto’s computer system, that computer system cancels the policy.
fact: In the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," under Louisiana’s premium-finance notice procedures, once the e-mailed notice is received in the early morning hours, the policy is canceled through the relevant system: GoAuto’s computer system.
target:  GoAuto’s computer system.
probe: In the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," under Louisiana’s premium-finance notice procedures, once the e-mailed notice is received in the early morning hours, the policy is canceled through the relevant system:

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A GoAuto deponent explained how an APAC computer system interacts with a GoAuto web service: For instance, during the cancellation process, the APAC process . . . makes a call to a GoAuto web service to request cancellation or perform cancellation for a policy that is canceling on that particular date.
fact: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, a GoAuto deponent described how an APAC computer system interacts with GoAuto during the cancellation process, and the APAC process makes a call to request or perform cancellation for a policy that is canceling on that date through a GoAuto web service.
target:  a GoAuto web service.
probe: According to the opinion in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, a GoAuto deponent described how an APAC computer system interacts with GoAuto during the cancellation process, and the APAC process makes a call to request or perform cancellation for a policy that is canceling on that date through

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It’s always listening, waiting to be called, and when it hears its name when it’s called, it says, well, tell me what you want to do, and if it understands it, it performs the activity.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the opinion quotes a GoAuto deponent describing how the APAC computer system interacts with a GoAuto web service during the cancellation process, and according to that description, the web service was "always listening, waiting to be called".
target:  "always listening, waiting to be called".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the opinion quotes a GoAuto deponent describing how the APAC computer system interacts with a GoAuto web service during the cancellation process, and according to that description, the web service was

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: No person is involved until later in the morning after the GoAuto computer system effects cancellation.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", cancellation before any person becomes involved later in the morning is effected by "the GoAuto computer system".
target:  "the GoAuto computer system".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", cancellation before any person becomes involved later in the morning is effected by

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: No person is involved until later in the morning after the GoAuto computer system effects cancellation.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", after the GoAuto computer system effects cancellation, any person becomes involved in the cancellation process "later in the morning".
target:  "later in the morning".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", after the GoAuto computer system effects cancellation, any person becomes involved in the cancellation process

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At that later time, an APAC employee uses a signature stamp on the printed cancellation documents.
fact: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", after the GoAuto computer system has already effected cancellation, the signature stamp on the printed cancellation documents is used at that later time by "an APAC employee".
target:  "an APAC employee".
probe: According to the opinion in "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company", after the GoAuto computer system has already effected cancellation, the signature stamp on the printed cancellation documents is used at that later time by

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: At that later time, an APAC employee uses a signature stamp on the printed cancellation documents.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, after the GoAuto computer system has already effected cancellation and no person is involved until later in the morning, an APAC employee uses a signature stamp.
target:  a signature stamp.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, after the GoAuto computer system has already effected cancellation and no person is involved until later in the morning, an APAC employee uses

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: What is necessary prior to cancellation is that the insurer had “receipt” of notice of cancellation sent by the premium finance company.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, discussing Louisiana Revised Statute § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), the court explained that before the insurer may cancel the policy, notice of cancellation must be sent by "the premium finance company".
target:  "the premium finance company".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, discussing Louisiana Revised Statute § 9:3550(G)(3)(b)(i), the court explained that before the insurer may cancel the policy, notice of cancellation must be sent by

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We mention that the district court held GoAuto’s cancellation procedures complied with the statute in a different way: “the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation neatly fits the definition of private carrier.”
fact: According to the district court in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, GoAuto’s cancellation procedures complied with the Louisiana statute in a different way because the person who, in the court’s view, “neatly fits the definition of private carrier” was “the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation”.
target:  “the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation”.
probe: According to the district court in Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, GoAuto’s cancellation procedures complied with the Louisiana statute in a different way because the person who, in the court’s view, “neatly fits the definition of private carrier” was

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We mention that the district court held GoAuto’s cancellation procedures complied with the statute in a different way: “the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation neatly fits the definition of private carrier.”
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the district court said GoAuto’s cancellation procedures complied with the statute in a different way, because the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation neatly fits the definition of “private carrier”.
target:  “private carrier”.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the district court said GoAuto’s cancellation procedures complied with the statute in a different way, because the APAC employee who delivers the notices of cancellation neatly fits the definition of

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court recognized an absence of Louisiana case law interpreting “private carrier” and found analogous a panel of this court’s explanation of when a railroad was a private carrier.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the district court recognized that what was absent in interpreting 'private carrier' was "Louisiana case law".
target:  "Louisiana case law".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the district court recognized that what was absent in interpreting 'private carrier' was

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The district court recognized an absence of Louisiana case law interpreting “private carrier” and found analogous a panel of this court’s explanation of when a railroad was a private carrier.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, after the district court recognized that there was no Louisiana case law interpreting the term “private carrier,” it found analogous a panel of this court’s explanation of when the term applied to a particular mode of transport, a railroad.
target:  a railroad.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, after the district court recognized that there was no Louisiana case law interpreting the term “private carrier,” it found analogous a panel of this court’s explanation of when the term applied to a particular mode of transport,

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Plaintiffs request we certify these issues of statutory interpretation to the Louisiana Supreme Court.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Plaintiffs ask the court to certify issues of statutory interpretation to "the Louisiana Supreme Court".
target:  "the Louisiana Supreme Court".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the Plaintiffs ask the court to certify issues of statutory interpretation to

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Plaintiffs request we certify these issues of statutory interpretation to the Louisiana Supreme Court.
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the plaintiffs asked the court to certify certain matters to the Louisiana Supreme Court, specifically "issues of statutory interpretation".
target:  "issues of statutory interpretation".
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the plaintiffs asked the court to certify certain matters to the Louisiana Supreme Court, specifically

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They contend the proper interpretation of the statutory terms is important to Louisiana’s insurance industry and statutory scheme.
fact: In "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the Plaintiffs asked the court to certify issues of statutory interpretation to the Louisiana Supreme Court and contended that the proper interpretation of the statutory terms is important to "Louisiana’s insurance industry".
target:  "Louisiana’s insurance industry".
probe: In "Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company," the Plaintiffs asked the court to certify issues of statutory interpretation to the Louisiana Supreme Court and contended that the proper interpretation of the statutory terms is important to

----- Row 103 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: “As a general proposition we are chary about certifying questions of law absent a compelling reason to do so; the availability of certification is such an important resource to this court that we will not risk its continued availability by going to that well too often.” Jefferson v. Lead Indus. Ass’n, 106 F.3d 1245, 1247 (5th Cir. 1997).
fact: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the court quoted Jefferson v. Lead Industries Ass’n to explain its general reluctance to certify questions of law, describing certification to the court as an important resource.
target:  an important resource.
probe: In Williams v. GoAuto Insurance Company, the court quoted Jefferson v. Lead Industries Ass’n to explain its general reluctance to certify questions of law, describing certification to the court as

