\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Byte Latent Transformer: Patches Scale Better Than Tokens"}

### What is the fundamental difference between a 'patch' in BLT and a 'token' in a standard LLM?
Question:
I am trying to understand the core distinction the paper makes between patching and tokenization. The paper says BLT is 'tokenizer-free' and uses 'dynamically sized patches,' but a token is also just a group of bytes. Is the main difference simply that tokens come from a fixed vocabulary and patches don't? If so, why does the paper claim this leads to better efficiency?
Answer:
The fundamental difference between a "patch" in Byte Latent Transformer (BLT) and a "token" in a standard Large Language Model (LLM) lies in how the units of computation are defined: tokens are determined by a static, heuristic-based pre-processing step, whereas patches are determined by a dynamic, data-driven process during the model's execution.

In standard LLMs, tokenization (such as Byte-Pair Encoding) groups bytes into a finite, fixed vocabulary. Because this vocabulary is determined before training, the model essentially loses direct access to the underlying byte-level features. Furthermore, tokenization is a "one-size-fits-all" approach where the model allocates the same amount of computational power (the same number of transformer steps) to every token, regardless of how easy or difficult that token is to predict. This creates an efficiency bottleneck; for example, predicting a common suffix in a word is computationally "cheap" and doesn't require the full power of a large transformer, but a token-based model still spends the same amount of compute on it.

In contrast, BLT is "tokenizer-free" and uses a dynamic patching scheme. Instead of a fixed vocabulary, BLT maps arbitrary groups of bytes to latent representations using a learned local encoder. The length of these patches is not fixed; instead, the model uses "entropy patching" to segment the data. By calculating the entropy of the next-byte prediction, the model identifies boundaries where data complexity increases. This allows the model to dynamically allocate compute: it uses longer patches for predictable, low-entropy data (reducing the number of steps) and shorter patches for complex, high-entropy data (allocating more model capacity where it is needed most).

The efficiency gains mentioned in the paper stem from two primary sources. First, because the model only runs the expensive "Latent Global Transformer" on patches rather than every byte, it can process long sequences of predictable text very quickly. Second, and perhaps more importantly for scaling, BLT breaks the traditional trade-off between vocabulary size and model dimensions. In token-based models, increasing the average token size usually requires a much larger embedding table and output dimension, which limits how much you can "compress" the sequence. Because BLT does not use a fixed vocabulary, it can simultaneously grow the model size and the patch size while staying within the same inference FLOP budget. This allows the model to perform more "reasoning" (via a larger global transformer) while processing more "data" per step (via longer patches), a scaling dimension that is not available to standard token-based architectures.