\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model"}

### Why does PPO seem less robust to sampling temperature than DPO in experiments?
Question:
Looking at Figure 2 (referenced in Section 5.2 regarding Summarization), the text notes that 'DPO is much more robust to sampling temperature than PPO,' and that PPO performance degrades significantly at high temperatures while DPO remains stable. 

Since both methods ostensibly optimize similar objectives (maximizing reward subject to a KL constraint), why would their behavior diverge so drastically during inference with different temperatures? Is this because PPO tends to overfit to high-reward modes during training (mode collapse), making it brittle when stochasticity is introduced at test time? Or does the direct optimization of probabilities in DPO preserve more entropy in policy outputs naturally? The paper mentions PPO requires careful hyperparameter tuning; could this instability be purely a result of suboptimal tuning in their setup?
Answer:
The observed divergence in robustness to sampling temperature between PPO and DPO stems from fundamental differences in how the two algorithms navigate the optimization landscape and handle the trade-off between reward maximization and entropy preservation, rather than merely suboptimal hyperparameter tuning. While both methods theoretically optimize the same objective—maximizing expected reward subject to a $\text{KL}$-divergence constraint against a reference policy—their practical implementations lead to distinct policy characteristics.

PPO operates as an actor-critic algorithm that relies on estimating a value function and sampling from the current policy during training to approximate gradients. This process is notoriously unstable and sensitive to hyperparameters, often leading the policy to prematurely converge to narrow, high-reward modes—a phenomenon akin to mode collapse. When a policy undergoes such sharp convergence, it assigns extremely high probability mass to specific tokens or sequences while suppressing others, effectively reducing the inherent entropy of the output distribution. Consequently, when you introduce stochasticity at inference time via higher sampling temperatures, the policy lacks a robust support of diverse, high-quality alternatives. The "brittleness" you observe occurs because the probability mass is so concentrated that perturbing the sampling distribution (via temperature) frequently pushes the model into low-probability regions that were never adequately regularized or explored during training, causing a drastic drop in performance. The paper notes in Section 5.2 that PPO's performance degrades to that of the base model at high temperatures, suggesting that the fine-tuned policy has lost the smoothness required to maintain quality under stochastic decoding.

In contrast, DPO bypasses the explicit reinforcement learning loop and the need for a separate value function by reparameterizing the reward function directly in terms of the policy and a reference model. As derived in Equation 12 of the paper, DPO optimizes a binary cross-entropy loss that implicitly enforces the $\text{KL}$ constraint through a dynamic, per-example importance weight. This weighting mechanism, described in Section 4, scales the gradient updates based on how incorrectly the current implicit reward model ranks dispreferred versus preferred completions. This formulation tends to produce smoother optimization dynamics that prevent the policy from collapsing too aggressively into singular modes. By directly optimizing the relative log probabilities without the variance introduced by Monte Carlo sampling of trajectories and value estimation errors inherent in PPO (discussed in Section 5.1 regarding actor-critic instability), DPO preserves a healthier distributional shape around the preferred responses. Essentially, DPO maintains higher effective entropy in regions relevant to human preference, creating a "flatter" optimum where high-quality responses remain probable even when the sampling temperature is increased.

Therefore, the stability of DPO across temperatures is not just a matter of better tuning but a structural advantage of avoiding the high-variance estimation steps of PPO. The direct optimization ensures that the policy does not overfit to specific high-reward trajectories at the expense of generalizability, allowing it to retain performance even when inference-time stochasticity is increased. This aligns with the empirical findings in Figure 2 (Section 5.2), where DPO maintains a high win rate across a range of temperatures while PPO exhibits a sharp decline, confirming that DPO learns a more robust mapping from prompts to preferred distributions.