\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### Why use LLM to parse its own rules into code instead of rule-based parsing?
Question:
In Section 3.2, the paper discusses parsing rules into program code. It says: "Even though we constrain formatting of responses and rules during rule generation for easier parsing, the LLM's output can include noisy syntactic changes... This variability makes parsing more challenging."

The solution is: "instead of building complex program code, we leverage the LLM itself" to generate parsing code.

I'm confused about this design choice. If the rules are generated with constrained formatting, why not use regex or rule-based parsing? Why is a SECOND LLM call needed to convert natural language rules into code? Also, does this mean FeatLLM requires TWO LLM API calls per ensemble trial - one for rule generation and one for code generation? How does this affect the total number of API calls?
Answer:
The key insight here is that the paper constrains the *format* of the LLM's rule output, but not the exact *syntax* of every token within that format. The paper gives a concrete example: even with formatting constraints, the LLM might substitute "$>$" with "greater than," or "$<$" with "less than." These are semantically identical but syntactically different expressions. A regex or rule-based parser would need to anticipate every possible phrasing of every operator, comparison, and logical combination the LLM might produce. This is essentially a natural language understanding problem — mapping varied surface forms to a consistent internal representation — which is precisely what LLMs are good at. The paper explicitly states: "The LLM is good at understanding the semantic meaning despite syntactic changes in text, and it has the ability to generate a simple code with instructions (given it's trained on code data corpus)." So rather than maintaining a brittle, ever-growing set of regex patterns to handle each new linguistic variant, the authors leverage the LLM's semantic understanding to directly emit executable Python code via a second prompt. This generated code is then run with Python's `exec()` function to transform data samples into binary features.

To your second question: yes, each ensemble trial does require two LLM API calls — one for rule generation and one for code generation from those rules. With the default setting of 20 ensemble trials, this means 40 LLM calls in principle. The paper reports "30 API queries" for the Adult dataset experiment with 16 shots, which suggests the total is on the order of 1–2 calls per trial (the exact count may reflect implementation details such as whether some parsing calls are shared or batched). Importantly, the paper emphasizes that this total is small compared to LLM-based approaches that require one API call *per sample* at inference time. Since FeatLLM only uses LLM calls during the feature engineering phase and then relies on a simple linear model for actual predictions, the 30-ish calls are a one-time training cost that can be parallelized, and inference on new samples requires zero LLM calls. This is a central design advantage of the framework: the LLM's knowledge is distilled into rules and code during training, and the resulting features feed a lightweight downstream model at test time.