\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### How does the two-step reasoning instruction prevent spurious correlations in FeatLLM?
Question:
The paper describes a two-step reasoning process in the prompt design:
1. Step 1: Infer causal relationships between features and task WITHOUT looking at example demonstrations (using only prior knowledge)
2. Step 2: Use example demonstrations AND Step 1 knowledge to derive rules

The paper claims: "This two-step reasoning process prevents the model from identifying spurious correlations in irrelevant columns and can assist in focusing on more significant features."

I'm confused about the mechanism here. If Step 1 uses prior knowledge to identify relevant features, and Step 2 uses examples, how does this ordering prevent spurious correlations? Is the idea that Step 1 acts as a "filter" that identifies which features are plausibly relevant based on domain knowledge, so that Step 2 doesn't get distracted by spurious patterns in the few-shot examples?
Answer:
Your understanding is essentially correct, and the paper provides both the conceptual mechanism and empirical evidence to support it.

The core idea is that in few-shot settings, the LLM is presented with very few examples, which dramatically increases the risk of spurious correlations. If you directly ask the LLM to derive rules from those examples alone, it may seize on patterns in irrelevant columns that happen to correlate with the target in the small sample but have no true causal relationship. For instance, in a 4-shot setting, an irrelevant column like "zip code" might coincidentally separate the classes perfectly in those 4 samples, leading the model to construct a rule around it.

Step 1 mitigates this by forcing the LLM to first reason about which features are *causally* or *semantically* relevant to the task using its pretrained prior knowledge, before it ever sees the examples. This establishes a set of plausible feature-to-task relationships grounded in domain understanding rather than data patterns. When Step 2 then introduces the examples, the LLM is already primed to focus on features it identified as meaningful in Step 1, so it tends to construct rules using those features rather than chasing coincidental patterns in irrelevant columns.

The ablation study in the paper confirms this mechanism. Removing Step 1 (the "$\textsf{-Reasoning}$" ablation) causes performance degradation, and the paper notes this effect is "high when the number of shots is small," which is exactly the regime where spurious correlations are most dangerous. The spurious correlation experiment provides further evidence: when irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset are attached to the Heart dataset, FeatLLM shows the least performance degradation compared to baselines, and rules based on noisy columns account for only $1$--$2\%$ of the total rules generated. The paper attributes this directly to the fact that "our framework forces the consideration of the relationship between the task and features based on prior knowledge when extracting rules, preventing the generation of rules based on irrelevant columns."

So yes, you can think of Step 1 as a prior-knowledge filter that constrains the hypothesis space before the LLM ever looks at the data, reducing the chance that the few-shot examples lead it astray. This is conceptually similar to injecting an inductive bias into the model — the LLM's prior knowledge acts as a regularizer against overfitting to spurious patterns in small samples.