\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### Why does FeatLLM use a simple linear model instead of more complex downstream models?
Question:
The paper states: "once the features are discovered, a complex machine learning model is no longer needed for inference, improving the inference latency" and uses linear regression/logistic regression as the downstream model.

I'm confused about this design choice. If the binary features from rules are the new representation, couldn't a more powerful model like XGBoost or a neural network learn better patterns from these features? The paper mentions that the linear model has non-negative weights, which seems restrictive. Is the simplicity of the downstream model a feature (interpretability, low overfitting risk in few-shot setting) or a necessity? The ablation study shows tuning helps, but wouldn't a more complex model capture more?
Answer:
The choice of a simple linear model with non-negative weights in FeatLLM is a deliberate design decision driven by several interconnected factors, all rooted in the few-shot tabular learning setting that the paper targets.

The core insight is that FeatLLM shifts the complexity of learning from the downstream model to the LLM's feature engineering process. The LLM, leveraging its prior knowledge and the few-shot examples, generates rules that are parsed into binary features $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0,1\}^R$ indicating whether each rule for class $k$ is satisfied. At this point, the representation is already informative and semantically meaningful—the "hard work" of discovering relevant patterns has been done. What remains is simply learning the relative importance of each rule, which is a much simpler problem that does not require a complex model.

This simplicity is particularly important in the few-shot regime. As the paper notes, learning from a small number of labeled samples "presents the risk of learning spurious correlations." A more expressive model like XGBoost or a neural network has a larger hypothesis space and capacity, making it more prone to fitting noise in the limited training data. The linear model, with its constrained capacity, acts as a regularizer. The paper's ablation study supports this: while weight tuning (as opposed to simply summing rule activations) does improve performance, the gains are modest and become more significant only as the number of shots increases. This suggests that when data is scarce, even simple tuning must be done carefully, and a more complex model would likely exacerbate overfitting rather than capture additional useful patterns.

The non-negativity constraint on the weights, implemented via $\text{logit}_k^i = \max(\mathbf{w}_k, 0) \cdot \mathbf{z}_k^i$, is a semantically motivated design choice. Since each binary feature represents whether a rule associated with class $k$ is satisfied, it would be counterintuitive for satisfying a class-$k$ rule to decrease the likelihood of class $k$. The non-negativity constraint enforces this: rules generated for a class can only contribute positively (or zero) to that class's logit. This also aids interpretability, as the learned weights directly indicate the importance of each rule, and the paper shows that irrelevant rules are effectively filtered out during tuning (weights drop below a threshold). A more complex model would obscure this transparent relationship between rules and predictions.

The paper also explicitly prioritizes inference latency as a goal. FeatLLM is designed so that "once the features are discovered, a complex machine learning model is no longer needed for inference." Since the rules are fixed after generation, inference reduces to a simple dot product followed by a softmax—computationally trivial compared to running an XGBoost ensemble or a neural network. The runtime comparison in Table 4 confirms that FeatLLM achieves inference times comparable to conventional methods like logistic regression, while other LLM-based approaches are orders of magnitude slower.

Finally, the framework compensates for the simplicity of the base model through ensembling. FeatLLM generates $T = 20$ independent rule sets with bagging and averages their predictions. This ensemble strategy introduces model complexity at the system level rather than the individual model level, improving robustness against incorrect rules generated in individual trials while keeping each component simple and interpretable. The paper draws an explicit analogy to ensemble methods like random forests, where many weak learners combine to form a strong predictor.

In summary, the linear model is both a feature and a practical necessity for this setting. It is a necessity because few-shot data cannot support a more complex model without overfitting, and because inference latency is a stated design goal. It is a feature because the LLM's feature engineering has already captured the complex patterns, leaving only a simple weighting task, and because the non-negative linear model preserves interpretability and aligns with the semantic meaning of the rule-based features.