\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"}

### How does feature bagging mitigate LLM prompt size limitations in FeatLLM?
Question:
The paper mentions that FeatLLM uses bagging to address prompt size limitations: "By appropriately adjusting the number of features and samples chosen in bagging, the challenge of excessive prompt size is mitigated."

I understand that bagging involves selecting random subsets of features/samples. But I'm confused about how this helps with prompt size. Is the idea that instead of putting ALL features and ALL few-shot examples into the prompt (which might exceed the context window), we randomly subsample both features and examples for each ensemble trial? So each trial gets a smaller prompt, and then the ensemble combines results from multiple trials with different feature subsets?

If so, does this mean different ensemble members see different subsets of features, and we're banking on the ensemble capturing all features across members?
Answer:
Your understanding is essentially correct. In FeatLLM, each ensemble trial receives a randomly subsampled subset of features and/or training examples in its prompt, rather than the full set. This keeps each individual prompt within the LLM's context window, even when the dataset has a large number of features (the paper notes that datasets like Communities and Myocardial have over $100$ attributes, which would create prompts exceeding the context limit if all features were included).

The prompt in FeatLLM consists of three components: basic information (task description, feature descriptions, and serialized few-shot examples), reasoning instructions, and response instructions. Each few-shot example is serialized by listing all feature values, so the prompt size grows linearly with both the number of features and the number of examples. When either dimension becomes large, the serialized text can exceed what the LLM accepts. By using bagging to select a subset of features and/or instances per trial, each trial's prompt is reduced to a manageable size.

Yes, different ensemble members do see different subsets of features. The paper explicitly acknowledges this trade-off: "While a single rule set might not capture the relationships of all features, the ensemble of various weak learners created across multiple trials can nullify the impact of incomplete feature/instance coverage in individual trials." This is directly analogous to how a Random Forest works—each tree is trained on a random subset of features and is individually a weak learner, but the ensemble collectively covers the full feature space and achieves strong performance through aggregation.

The final prediction combines all trials by averaging the class probabilities from each ensemble member's trained linear model (Equation $2$ in the paper). So a feature that is absent from one trial's prompt may still be captured by other trials that happened to include it, and the ensemble averaging ensures that rules consistently inferred across multiple trials (which the paper connects to LLM self-consistency) dominate the final prediction while noisy or incorrect rules from individual trials are downweighted through averaging.

The paper sets the number of ensemble trials to $20$ and uses a temperature of $0.5$ to introduce additional randomness in rule generation across trials. It also randomizes the order of few-shot demonstrations, since prompt ordering is known to affect LLM outputs. Together, these sources of diversity ensure that the ensemble covers different portions of the feature space across trials, making the framework robust even when no single trial can accommodate all available features.