--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a simple yet effective finetuning method that can be used to finetune pretrained text-to-image diffusion models to downstream tasks. OFT finetunes the pretrained text-to-image diffusion model by updating the weights with an orthogonal matrix, preserving the pairwise angles between neurons. OFT is provably angle-preserving, does not degrade spectral radius, and empirically yields better controllability and stability than standard finetuning and LoRA. Furthermore, OFT is computationally efficient and can be easily implemented on top of existing training infrastructures. We demonstrate the effectiveness of OFT in finetuning various text-to-image diffusion models including Stable Diffusion v1.5, DALL-E2, and CLIP-T2I. On the task of generating image captions, OFT finetuned models outperforms both frozen pretrained models and current state-of-the-art methods including LoRA finetuned models. Code is available at https://github.com/houls/oft.

Related Work
Text-to-image diffusion models. Tremendous progress has been made in text-to-image generation thanks to the rapid development in diffusion-based generative models (Ho et al., 2020;Saharia et al., 2022;Ramesh et al., 2021;Park et al., 202 two approaches: diffusion models trained on text instructions and generative adversarial networks (GANs) finetuned with text instructions (Ramesh et al.), and end-to-end diffusion models that directly learn the text-to-image generation pipeline . Most related to our work are the stable diffusion models (SD) (rombach et al., 2023) and the more recent CLIP-T2I model (radford et al., 202 blood vessels, and so on. These controllable text-to-image models have sparked great interest and have the potential to revolutionize many applications including image-to-image translation (Isola et al., 2017), image editing (Zhang et al., 202 can be roughly divided into two categories: finetuning based methods and retraining based methods. Finetuning based methods modify the pretrained model slightly without changing its overall architecture. LoRA (hulora botvinik et al., 202

Method
In this section, we introduce Orthogonal Finetuning, an angle-preserving finetuning method for controlling text-to-image diffusion models. We first introduce the backpropagation based finetuning method in Section 3.1, then explain how to ensure the angle preservation in Section 3.2, and finally present the complete OFT algorithm in Section 3.3.

Backpropagation Based Finetuning
Finetuning is a simple yet effective method for adapting pretrained models to downstream tasks. It works by updating the pretrained model with a small learning rate. Formally, given a pretrained model M θ and a small learning rate α, the finetuned model is defined as: where θ denotes the trainable parameters in M θ . In practice, we usually add a linear layer on top of the pretrained model and then perform finetuning on the added layers. Although such a simple method, finetuning has proven to be very effective in adapting pretrained models to downstream datasets (Devlin et al., 2018;Liu et al., 202). In this work, we focus on finetuning text-to-image diffusion models.

Angle-Preserving Finetuning
Standard finetuning updates the pairwise inner product of neurons, which may destroy the pairwise angles between neurons and thus change the semantic of the pretrained model. To prevent the angle preservation, we propose Orthogonal Finetuning that updates the weights with an orthogonal transformation. Specifically, the forward pass of the OFT finetuned model is the same as that of the pretrained model: where W is the learned weight matrix. The key difference is in the backward pass, where we compute the gradient with respect to the weights as: where ∇ θ E is the gradient of the finetuning loss E with respect to the weights θ, and R(β) is an orthogonal matrix that only depends on the finetuning coefficient β. To ensure the orthogonality of R(β), we follow (Glorot & Bengio, 2010) to employ Cayley transform to rotate the identity matrix I by an angle β, i.e., R(β) = R c (β) = I + βN (N − βI), where N is the skew-symmetric matrix, N = −N T . By choosing different β, we can easily construct orthogonal matrices with different properties. For example, to ensure the orthogonal matrix to be symmetric, we can set β = β T ; to ensure the matrix to have real eigenvalues, we can set β to be small; to ensure the matrix to be stable, we can set β/α to be small, where α is the learning rate for weight update. Although we can construct many different orthogonal matrices, how to choose a good
