\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models"}

### Does Reinforcement Learning actually improve fundamental capabilities or just output consistency?
Question:
In Section 4.2.2 ('Why RL Works?'), the authors present an interesting finding: RL enhances Maj@K (majority vote accuracy) but does not significantly improve Pass@K (pass rate considering any correct sample in K attempts). 

They conclude that RL makes the output distribution 'more robust' rather than enhancing 'fundamental capabilities.' If Pass@K doesn't improve, doesn't that imply the model isn't actually learning to solve harder problems it couldn't solve before, but rather just becoming more consistent at solving problems it already knew how to solve occasionally? How does this align with the significant jump in single-sample accuracy on MATH (from 46.8% to 51.7%)?
Answer:
The apparent contradiction between the significant jump in single-sample accuracy and the stagnant Pass@K metric stems from a nuanced distinction between expanding a model's *capability boundary* versus refining its *output distribution*. As detailed in Section 4.2.2 ("Why RL Works?"), the authors observe that while Reinforcement Learning (specifically their GRPO algorithm) substantially improves Maj@K (majority vote accuracy), it does not yield a commensurate improvement in Pass@K. This specific pattern indicates that the RL phase is not teaching the model to solve entirely new classes of problems that were previously unsolvable; if it were, we would expect Pass@K—the probability of generating at least one correct solution in $K$ attempts—to rise significantly as the model discovers new solution paths for hard problems.

Instead, the data suggests that the Instruction Tuned (SFT) model already possesses the latent knowledge to solve many of these difficult problems but suffers from a "misalignment" where it frequently generates incorrect or suboptimal reasoning traces despite having the underlying capability. The RL process acts as a robustness filter, reshaping the probability landscape of the model's outputs to suppress erroneous reasoning patterns and amplify the correct ones that were already present but less probable in the SFT distribution. Consequently, when you sample $K$ times, the set of unique solvable problems (Pass@K) remains roughly constant because the ceiling of what the model *can* do hasn't moved much; however, the likelihood of hitting those correct solutions in any single attempt increases dramatically. This explains the surge in single-sample accuracy (from 46.8% to 51.7% on MATH) and Maj@K: the model has become far more consistent and reliable at accessing its existing knowledge, effectively converting "lucky guesses" or rare correct generations into deterministic behaviors. The authors explicitly conclude that this improvement is attributed to making the output distribution more robust rather than enhancing fundamental capabilities, implying that future gains in solving truly novel, harder problems will likely require advances in data sourcing or decoding strategies rather than just optimization of the current policy.