--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning" presents a novel method for adapting diffusion models, Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT), which preserves crucial geometric properties of neurons unlike standard finetuning or additive methods like LoRA. Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) is a novel approach to finetuning that preserves the geometric structure of neurons, which is crucial for preserving the information in the image. This paper is a follow-up to our previous work on text-to-image diffusion models, where we showed that OFT can improve the performance of text-to-image models. In this paper, we show that OFT can also improve the performance of text-only models. We also show that OFT can be used to control the diffusion of text-only models, which is a new application of OFT. We also show that the performance of text-only OFT models is comparable to that of text-only models finetuned with standard finetuning. Finally, we show that OFTs can be used to control text-only models, which opens up new possibilities for text-only models.

Introduction
Text-to-image models have been widely used to generate images from text descriptions. These models are trained on large datasets of text-to-image pairs, and they can generate images that are visually similar to the text descriptions. However, these models are not perfect. They often produce images that are not visually pleasing, and they may not be able to generate images that are semantically meaningful. In this paper, our goal is to improve the performance of textto-image models by controlling the diffusion of text-only images.
Text-to-image models are trained on large text-to-image datasets, such as ImageNet [1] and MS-COCO [2]. These models are trained to generate images that are visually pleasing and semantically meaningful. However, these models often produce images that are visually pleasing but not semantically meaningful. For example, a model trained on ImageNet may generate images that are visually appealing but do not contain any meaningful text. In this paper, however, we are interested in improving the performance of text-only images, which are generated from text descriptions without any visual input. We want to control the diffusion of these images, so that they are visually pleasing and semantically meaningful.
To achieve this goal, we propose a novel method called Orthogonal Finetuning. Orthogonal Finetunning (OFT) is an extension of finetuning that preserves geometric properties of neurons. This is important because it is crucial for preserving the semantic information in the image. In OFT, we use a different set of parameters than in finetuning, and we train the model on a different dataset. We show that OFT can improve both the performance of text-toimage models and text-only models. We show that OFTs can control the diffusion of textonly models, which opens up a new application of OFTs. We also show that text-only OFTs are comparable to text-only finetuning. Finally we show that OFTs are useful for controlling text-only models, which can be used to generate images that are both visually pleasing and semantically meaning.
In this paper, we focus on text-only models, which are trained on text descriptions without any visual inputs. We show that OFTS can be used to control these models, which opens up the possibility of generating images that are visually pleasing, semantically meaningful, and controlled. We also show that these models are comparable to finetuned models, which opens up possibilities for finetuning text-only models. Finally, we show how OFTs can be used for controlling text-only models. This opens up new possibilities for finetuning of text-only models.

Related Work
Text-to-image models are widely used to generate images. These models are trained to produce images that are visually similar and semantically meaningful. They are trained on large datasets, such as Image Net and MS COCO. These models are trained using a combination of text and image inputs. The text input is used to generate a text description, and the image input is used to generate an image. The model is trained to produce images that match the text description. However, these models do not always produce images that are visually appealing or semantically meaningful. In recent years, there has been a lot of work on improving the performance of text-to image models. One approach is to finetune the model on a smaller dataset. This is done by using a small set of text descriptions and images, and finetuning the model on these data. This approach has been shown to improve the performance of the model. Another approach is to use a different set of weights for the text and image inputs. This is done by finetuning the model using a different set of weights, and then using the finetuned weights to generate images. This approach has also been shown to improve the model performance. Finally, there has been a recent trend towards using text-only models. These models are trained only on text descriptions, and they do not use any visual inputs. This approach has been used to generate images that match the text descriptions. However these models are not perfect, and they may not always produce images that match the descriptions. In this paper, instead of finetuning the model, we propose a new approach called Orthogonal Finetunning. This approach is based on finetuning, but
