--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that adapts large pretrained models to downstream tasks. BOFT recursively applies a butterfly factorization to construct a parameter-efficient orthogonal matrix for finetuning. This results in a significant reduction in the number of trainable parameters, while still preserving the ability to orthogonally finetune all weights of the pretrained model. The authors empirically show that BOFT outperforms OFT and other state-of-the-art parameter-efficient finetuning methods on vision and language tasks. Moreover, BOFT scales to very large models and is well-suited for adapting large multiterminal transformer models to down-stream tasks.

The main contributions of the paper are:
1. A novel and provably parameter-efficient method for adapting large pretrained models, called Orthogonal Butterfly (BO FT).
2. A recursive butterfly factorization to construct an orthogonal matrix for finetun ing that reduces the number of trainable parameters without losing the ability to orthog onally finetune all model weights.
3. State-of-the-art performance on vision and language tasks, even when adapting very large models like 3B and 7B transformer models.
4. Empirical evidence that BOFT generalizes well and does not introduce instabilities.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces the related work. Section III provides the preliminaries. Section IV introduces the BOFT algorithm. Section V provides the experimental results. Section VI concludes the paper.

A. Parameter-Efficient FineTuning
Recent research has shown that finetuning all model parameters is crucial for performance. However, finetuning all parameters is often infeasible due to the large number of parameters in modern models. To address this, various parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) methods have been proposed (Wang et al., 2022;Li et al., 2021;Li et al., , 2022b. These methods typically zero out most of the model weights and only finetune a small subset of the model weights. Among these methods, LoRA (Liu et al., 2020) and RFT (Hulora AI, 2022) are two representative methods that zero out all convolution kernels except for a small subset of well-performing kernels. In contrast, OFT (Qiu et al., 2019) and BOFT zero out all model weights except for a small subset that is adaptively updated to optimize the downstream task. Despite being more parameter-efficient than LoRA and RFT, OFT and BOFT still finetune all weights in a layer, which can be suboptimal. For example, it may be beneficial to finetune some weights in a layer to a small extent while finetuning other weights in the same layer to a larger extent. To address this, Li et al. (2022a) propose a block-diagonal finetuning method that can flexibly control the degree to which different weights are finetuned. BOFT improves upon block-diagonal OFT in two ways. First, BOFT uses an efficient recursive butterfly factorization to generate the block-diagonal orthogonal matrix, which significantly reduces the number of trainable parameter es. Second, BOFT can orthogonally finetenue all weights in a layer (by setting the block-diagonal dimension to one), which has been shown to be important for performance (Qiu et al. 2019;Li et al., to address this, BOFT can simply set the block-diagonal dimension of the orthogonal matrix to one.

B. Orthogonal Finetuning
OFT is a parameter-efficient fineting method that adaptively updates a small subset of model weights to optimize a downstream task. OFT has been shown to be effective and scalable to very large models (Qiu et al.
, 2020;Li et al., ). Specifically, OFT works by zeroing out almost all model weights and only adaptively updating a small subset of orthogonal weights. The orthogonal weights are updated to optimize the downstream tasks using an orthogonal finetuning objective (Qiu et al, 2019;Li, 2020, 2022). BOFT improves upon OFT in two ways: (1) BOFT uses an efficient butterfly factorization to generate an orthogonal matrix with fewer trainable parameters, and (2) BOFT can orthogonly finetune all weights within a layer (by setting t he block-diagonal dimension to 1), which has been shown important for performance (Qin et al., 2023;Li et al., ).

C. Butterfly Factorization
Butterfly factorization is a widely-used technique for efficiently representing matrices (Demmel, 1997;Kung and Reich, 1981). It has been used in many applications, such as fast matrix-vector multiplication (Demmel, 1985;Kung and Reich 1981), fast Fourier transform (Cooley and Tukey, 1965), and graph sparsification (Kolda and
