--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that is based on butterfly structures. The butterfly structure is a well-known data transmission network topology that is widely used in computer networks. The BOFT approach is based on the butterfly structure, which is a well-known data transfer network topology that is widely utilized in computer networks. The butterfly structure is an efficient way to construct sparse matrices, which are used to represent the orthogonal matrices in BOFT. The BOFT approach can be seen as a parameter-efficient orthogonal finituing technique that is based on the butterfly matrix. The butterfly matrix is a sparse matrix that is constructed using a butterfly structure. The butterfly structure is used to create a sparse matrix, which is then used to represent the orthogonal matrix in BOFT. The butterfly matrix is an efficient way to create sparse matrices, which are then used to represent the matrices in BOFT. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning technique that is based upon the butterfly matrix. The BOFT approach has a parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of LoRA, but it is capable of achieving performance that is on par with OFT. BOFT is a method for parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuing that is based on the use of butterfly matrices. The BOFT approach achieves a parameter efficiency that is on par with LoRA, but it can also achieve performance that is on par or better than OFT. The BOFT approach outperforms LoRA in terms of parameter efficiency, and it is capable of achieving results that are on par with or better than those of OFT. The BOft approach is a parameter-efficient orthogonal tuning technique that is based on a butterfly matrix. The BOft approach has a parameter efficiency comparable to that of LoRa, but it is capable to achieving performance that is on a par with or better than that of OFT. The butterfly matrix is used to create a parameter-efficient orthogonal fining technique called BOFT. The BOft approach achieves a parameter efficiency comparable to LoRa, but it can also attain performance that is on par to or better than that of the OFT approach. The BOFT approach, which is based on the butterfly matrices, is a parameter-efficient orthogonal tunig technique. The BOFT approach offers a parameter efficiency that is similar to that of LoRA but is capable of achieving performance on par with or better OFT. The BOFt approach is a parameter-efficient method for orthogonal finetuing that uses butterfly matrices. The BOft approach offers a parameter efficiency comparable to the LoRA approach, but it is capable achieving performance that is on-par with or better than that achieved by the OFT approach. BOFT is a novel parameter-efficient orthogonal finetueing technique that is based on using butterfly matrices. The BOFt technique achieves a parameter efficiency that compares favorably to that of LoRA while also being capable of achieving performance that matches or exceeds that of OFT. BOFT, which is based on butterfly matrices, is a novel parameter-efficient method for orthogonal fine-tuning. The BOFT approach provides a parameter efficiency that is competitive with that of LoRA, while also being capable of attaining performance that is on par, or better, than that of OFT.

The BOFT approach is a parameter-efficient technique for orthogonal finetuing, which is based on using butterfly matrix. The BOFt method achieves a parameter efficiency that competes favorably with that of LoRA while being capable of achieving performance on-par with, or better than, that of OFT. In addition, the BOFT approach is capable of being extended to a variety of other orthogonal finetuing techniques. The BOFT approach to orthogonal finetuing is parameter-efficient and is based on the use a butterfly matrix. The approach is capable of achieving performance comparable to OFT, while also being able to achieve performance that is on-par or better than that of LoRA. The BOFT approach also has the advantage of being able to be extended to a variety of orthogonal finetuing techniques.

The BOFT approach to orthogonal fine-tuning is parameter-efficient and is built on the use of a butterfly matrix. The method is capable of achieving performance similar to that of OFT, while also able to achieve performance that matches or exceeds LoRA. The BOft approach also has the advantage that it can be extended to a variety

The BOFT approach to orthogonally finetuing is parameter efficient and is based on the usage of a butterfly matrix. This approach is capable of achieving a performance that is comparable to that achieved by OFT, while also capable of achieving performance that exceeds that of LoRA. In addition, the approach has the advantage that it is able to be extended to various orthogonal finetuing techniques.
The BOFT approach to finetuing is parameter effecient and is based on the utilization of a butterfly matrix. It is capable of achieving a performace that is comparable to that which is achieved by OFT, and it is also capable of achieving performance which exceeds that of LoRA.
The BOFT approach is parameter effecient for orthog
