\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits"}

### Why do activations remain at 8-bit precision while weights are quantized to 1.58-bit?
Question:
The abstract and Section 2 state that \textbf{BitNet b1.58} has "every single parameter (or weight)... ternary" but also mentions it uses "8-bit activations".

If the goal is to create a "new era of 1-bit LLMs" and maximize energy savings by eliminating floating-point multiplication, why are activations not also quantized to a lower bit-width (e.g., INT4 or even ternary)? The paper mentions that matrix multiplication cost comes from floating-point operations. If activations are still INT8 (or FP8), doesn't this mean we are still performing mixed-precision arithmetic that might limit the theoretical speedup claimed for pure integer addition? Is there a specific reason why lowering activation precision below 8 bits causes performance collapse in this architecture?
Answer:
The decision to keep activations at 8-bit precision while quantizing weights to 1.58-bit (ternary $\{-1, 0, 1\}$) is a deliberate trade-off between computational efficiency and model representational capacity, driven by the specific way BitNet b1.58 is trained from scratch. While the primary goal is to eliminate floating-point multiplications in the matrix multiplication layer ($Wx$), reducing activation precision below 8 bits would likely cause a catastrophic collapse in model performance because activations carry the high-dimensional, continuous feature representations necessary for the model to learn complex language patterns.

In the BitNet architecture, the weights are constrained to ternary values to transform the matrix multiplication operation into a series of integer additions and subtractions, effectively removing the energy-intensive floating-point multipliers from the critical path. However, the activations (the input vector $x$) must retain sufficient dynamic range and precision to capture the subtle variations in data as it propagates through the network layers. The paper explicitly states that BitNet b1.58 is trained from scratch with this specific configuration (1.58-bit weights and 8-bit activations) and successfully matches full-precision baselines starting from a 3B parameter size. This suggests that during training, the model learns to distribute information such that 8-bit precision is sufficient for activations without degrading perplexity or end-task performance. If activations were quantized too aggressively (e.g., to ternary or INT4), the quantization noise would accumulate rapidly across layers, preventing the model from converging to a useful solution or matching full-precision baselines.

Furthermore, there is a practical hardware and implementation rationale for this choice. The paper notes that scaling activations to a symmetric range $[-Q_b, Q_b]$ per token simplifies system-level optimization by removing zero-point quantization overheads. While INT8 arithmetic still requires some hardware support, modern GPUs and CPUs have highly optimized native support for INT8 operations, making them significantly faster and more energy-efficient than FP16 or BF16 while avoiding the complexity of custom kernels required for lower-bit integer arithmetic on current general-purpose hardware. The paper acknowledges in its "Discussion" section that further lossless compression of activations to 4 bits or lower is possible but leaves it as future work, implying that while theoretically desirable for maximum efficiency, it currently presents an unsolved challenge for maintaining performance parity with full-precision models in this specific architecture. Thus, 8-bit activations serve as a "sweet spot" that preserves the massive energy savings of ternary weights (which dominate memory footprint and computation count) while ensuring the numerical stability required for high-quality language modeling.