--- PROMPT ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is

--- GENERATION ---
The paper "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is a Secret Reward model" presents a novel and efficient method for aligning language models with human preferences. The core contribution of the paper is a new algorithm called Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), which is an iterative optimization procedure that uses a reward model to update the language model in each iteration. DPO is based on the observation that the language model can be viewed as a proxy for the human preference model, and that the preference model can be learned from the data using a reward function. The reward function is typically a variant of the cross-entropy loss, but it can also be a variant of the KL-divergence loss or any other loss function that is suitable for reward learning. In the first iteration of DPO, the language model is initialized with an empty distribution, and the reward function is used to update the language model until convergence. In subsequent iterations, the language model is used as the reward function to update the preference model. Theoretical analysis shows that under certain conditions, the sequence of language model updates generated by DPO converges to the optimal policy under the reward model. Empirical evaluations on multiple datasets show that DPO produces improvements over several baselines, including the current state-of-the-art language model fine-tuning method, RefineNet. DPO is also compared against alternative approaches that learn the reward function from the data, such as PPO and RL-Finetune. In particular, PPO and RL-Fintune are compared under the assumption that the reward function is known, but they are learned from the data. These two methods are shown to be equivalent to DPO under this assumption, but DPO does not require any assumptions about the reward function. DPO is also evaluated against several baselines that do not use a language model fine-tuning stage, including baselines that use reinforcement learning to directly optimize the target objective, such as RL-Fintune. DPO produces improvements over all of these baselines, including the best-performing reinforcement learning baseline. DPO is also shown to be more robust to initialization than RL-Fintune, another reinforcement learning-based fine-tuning method.
In this paper, we introduce a new approach for training language models, called DPO. DPO is an iterative optimization procedure based on the observation that language models can be viewed as a surrogate for human preferences, and that the preference models can be learned from the training data using a reward function that is typically a variant of cross-entropy loss. The reward function is often learned using reinforcement learning, but it can also use any other loss function that can be used for reward learning. In this paper, we introduce an alternative approach that does not require reinforcement learning. Our approach is based on the observation, first made in the context of reinforcement learning, that the optimal policy under a reward function can be obtained by solving a constrained optimization problem. We formalize this idea in Section 2, and provide theoretical guarantees for the convergence of the DPO algorithm in Section 3. In Section 4, we evaluate DPO on multiple datasets, and show that it produces improvements over several baseline methods, including the current stateof-the-art language model fine tuning method, RefineNet.
In this section, we introduce our approach for training language models using reinforcement learning. We assume that we have access to a large dataset of human preferences, and that we want to train a language model that can generate text that is likely to be preferred by humans. We also assume that we have access a large dataset of text samples, and a language model that can transform input text into output probability distributions. We can use the language model to transform the input text into a sequence of reward values, and then use the reward function to train a reward model. The reward model can be used to generate a reward function, which is a function that maps input text to a scalar value. The reward function can then be used to train a preference model. The preference model can be used to predict the human preferences for the input text, and the predicted preferences can be used to update the languagemodel parameters. This process can be repeated several times, until the language model parameters converge to a stationary distribution that is close to the optimal policy under a given reward function. This is the basic idea behind reinforcement learning-based language model training, and it is formalized in Algorithm 1.
In this paper, however, we do not assume that we have access the large dataset of human preferences. Instead, we assume that we have access only to a small dataset of human preferences, which we call the training set. We also assume that the training set is incomplete, in the sense that it does not contain all of the possible preferences that could be observed in the real world. With these assumptions, we can still train a reward model from the training set, but we cannot train a preference model from the training set. Instead, we can only train a language model that is optimized to maximize the average reward under the reward function learned from the training set. This is the basic approach of DPO, which is described in Algorithm 2.
In the first iteration of D PO, we initialize the language model with an empty distribution, then we use the reward function to update it until
