\title{Blogs about the Paper: "Byte Latent Transformer: Patches Scale Better Than Tokens"}

# The New Scaling Law: Growing Models Without Breaking Your Budget

For years, the trajectory of Large Language Model (LLM) development has been defined by a rigid trade-off. To get bigger and smarter, models had to accept slower inference speeds or consume exponentially more compute. This bottleneck stems from the industry's reliance on tokenization—the process of grouping bytes into fixed vocabulary items. While effective, this approach forces a model to allocate the same amount of computational effort to every token, regardless of whether that token represents a complex concept or a trivial repetition. Enter the Byte Latent Transformer (BLT), a new architecture that shatters this constraint by introducing a dynamic scaling law where you can simultaneously increase model size and patch size without exceeding your inference budget.

Traditional LLMs treat every token equally, meaning the computational cost is driven by the number of tokens rather than the actual complexity of the data. If a sentence contains mostly predictable words, the model still spends significant resources processing them as individual tokens. BLT flips this script by operating directly on raw bytes and dynamically grouping them into "patches." These patches are not fixed units like tokens; instead, they are formed based on the entropy, or uncertainty, of the next byte. In regions where the data is predictable—like common suffixes in English words—the model groups many bytes into a single patch. Conversely, in complex areas requiring careful prediction, it breaks data down into smaller chunks. This allows BLT to allocate its "brainpower" exactly where it is needed most.

The architectural innovation lies in how BLT manages these patches through a hybrid system of local and global models. Instead of running one massive transformer on every unit of input, BLT utilizes two lightweight "local" models flanking a powerful "global" latent transformer. The local encoder compresses sequences of raw bytes into compact patch representations, while the global transformer performs heavy lifting on these higher-level patches. Once the global model processes the information, a local decoder expands it back into raw bytes for output. Crucially, because dynamic patching reduces the number of steps required for predictable text, the expensive global transformer is invoked less frequently for easy sections of text. This efficiency gain creates a unique opportunity: we can reallocate the saved compute to grow the size of that global transformer itself.

This leads to what we call "flop-controlled scaling," where performance improves not just by adding parameters, but by intelligently managing how those parameters are accessed. In our scaling studies involving models up to 8 billion parameters and 4 trillion training bytes, we observed that BLT can maintain a fixed inference budget while increasing both model capacity and average patch size. For instance, by doubling the average patch size from 4 to 8 bytes, we effectively cut inference costs by nearly half without sacrificing performance on standard benchmarks like MMLU or HumanEval compared to Llama 3. In fact, when holding inference costs constant, BLT consistently outperforms tokenization-based architectures as training data grows beyond optimal ratios. This means developers can invest more in pre-training—a one-time cost—to build significantly more capable models that remain fast during deployment.

Beyond raw efficiency and scaling trends, working directly with raw bytes unlocks capabilities that token-based models often miss due to their reliance on finite vocabularies. Tokenizers inherently lose orthographic knowledge because they cannot distinguish between letters that belong to different words if those letter combinations aren't explicitly in their dictionary. BLT retains direct access to byte-level features through specialized hash n-gram embeddings and cross-attention mechanisms within its local encoder and decoder layers. This results in remarkable robustness against input noise; whether text is scrambled with random casing or missing characters, BLT maintains high accuracy where other models fail spectacularly. Furthermore, it demonstrates superior performance in character-level tasks such as grapheme-to-phoneme conversion and low-resource machine translation for languages with scarce training data or unique scripts where tokenizers struggle with long-tail distributions.

The implications for future AI development are profound. By decoupling model growth from inference latency constraints via dynamic patching, we open a new dimension for scaling laws that was previously inaccessible to byte-level approaches without prohibitive costs. While current infrastructure is optimized for token-based workflows, techniques like FlexAttention allow us to bridge this gap efficiently today. As we move forward, this architecture suggests that the path to superintelligence may not lie solely in larger vocabularies or denser attention heads alone, but in smarter ways of organizing computation based on information density itself. For practitioners looking to maximize performance per dollar spent during inference while pushing the boundaries of model intelligence on limited hardware budgets, BLT offers a compelling blueprint for what comes next in generative AI evolution.</p>