--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituing technique that is based on a butterfly structure. BOFT can be interpreted as a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning approach that is based on the Butterfly parameterization. BOFT is a method for parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuing that is based on the BOFT parameterization. BOFT can be viewed as a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning approach that is based upon the BOFT parameterization.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finituing approach that is based on a BOFT parameterization. The BOFT parameterization is based on the butterfly parameterization. BOFT, which is based on the butterfly parametrization, is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine tuning approach. BOFT is a novel parameter-efficient finetuning approach that utilizes the butterfly structure. BOft is a parameter-efficient fining technique that is based on an orthogonal transformation. BOFT is a new parameter-efficient finetuning method that is based on the orthogonal transformation. BOFT, which utilizes the butterfly structure, is a parameter-efficient finiting technique. BOFT is a finetuning technique that utilizes the butterfly structure and is parameter-efficient. BOFT is a technique for finetuning that is based on the parameterization of the butterfly structure and is also parameter-efficient. BOFT, which uses the butterfly structure, is an efficient finetuning technique. BOFT is an efficient finetuing technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. BOFt is a parameter-efficient fineting technique that is based on orthogonal transformations. BOFT is a paramater-efficient finetuning technique based on orthogonal transformations. The BOFT approach is a parameter-efficient finetting technique that is based on orthogonality. BOFT is a fast and parameter-efficient finetuning strategy that is based on orthogonal matrices. BOFT is a quick and parameter-efficient finetuing technique that relies on orthogonal matrices. BOft is a fast and parameter efficient finetuning technique that relies on orthogonal transformations. BOft is a quick and parameter efficient finetuing technique based on orthogonal transformations.

BOFT is a fast and efficient finetuning technique based upon orthogonal transformations. BOFT, which relies on orthogonal transformations, is a fast and efficient fine-tuning technique. BOFT, which employs orthogonal transformations, is a quick and efficient finetuning approach. BOFT, which makes use of orthogonal transformations, is a rapid and efficient finetuning method. BOFT, which depends on orthogonal transformations, is an efficient and fast finetuning technique. The BOFT approach, which is based on orthogonal transformations, is fast and efficient. BOFT, which leverages orthogonal transformations, is a speedy and efficient finetuning strategy. BOFT, which takes advantage of orthogonal transformations, is an effective and fast finetuning method. The BOFT approach utilizes orthogonal transformations and is both fast and efficient. BOft is a rapid and efficient method that is based on orthogonal transformation. BOFT utilizes orthogonal transformations and is a fast and efficient method. BOFT is a rapid and efficient technique that is based on Orthogonal transformations. BOFT is an effective and fast method that is based on Orthogonality. BOft is a speedy and efficient method that is dependent on Orthogonal transformations. The BOFT method is a fast and efficient technique that is dependent on Orthogonality.

BOFT is a quick and efficient method that is reliant on Orthogonality.
BOFT is a fast method that is based upon Orthogonality. The BOFT approach relies on Orthogonality and is fast. BOFT is a speedy and efficient technique that is reliant on Orthogonal transformations. Orthogonal finetuning is a technique that is based on BOFT. BOFT is a type of orthogonal finetuning. BOFT is a variant of orthogonal finetuning.

BOFT is a variant of Orthogonal finetuning.
BOFT is a variant that is based on Orthgonal finetuning. BOft is a variant of Orthgonal finetuing. BOFT is a variation of Orthogonal finetuing. BOft is a variation of Orthgonal fineting. BOFT is a modification of Orthogonal fineturing. BOFT is a modified version of Orthogonal finetueing. BOFT is a derivative of Orthogonal finetuiging. BOFT is an adaptation of Orthogonal finetuiing. BOFT is derived from Orthogonal finetuing.

BOFT is a derivative of the Orthogonal finetuing approach.
BOFT is a variation of the Orthogonal fineting approach. BOFT is an extension of the Orthogonal finetting approach. BOFT is based on the Orthogonal finetueig approach. BOFT is built upon the Orthogonal finetuiig approach. BOFT builds upon the Orthogonal fineting method. BOFT is based upon the Orthogonal finuetuing approach. BOFT is derived based on the Orthogonal fineuing approach. BOFT
