--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituing technique that is based on a butterfly structure. BOFT can be interpreted as a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning approach that is based on the Butterfly parameterization. BOFT is a method for parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuing that is based on the BOFT parameterization. BOFT can be viewed as a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning approach that is based upon the BOFT parameterization.

BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finituing approach that is based on a BOFT parameterization. The BOFT parameterization is based on the butterfly parameterization. BOFT, which is based on the butterfly parametrization, is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine tuning approach. BOFT is a novel parameter-efficient finetuning approach that utilizes the butterfly structure. BOft is a parameter-efficient fining technique that is based on an orthogonal transformation. BOFT is a new parameter-efficient finetuning method that is based on the orthogonal transformation. BOFT, which utilizes the butterfly structure, is a parameter-efficient finiting technique. BOFT is a finetuning technique that utilizes the butterfly structure and is parameter-efficient. BOFT is a technique for finetuning that is based on the parameterization of the butterfly structure and is also parameter-efficient. BOFT, which uses the butterfly structure, is an efficient finetuning technique. BOFT is an efficient finetuing technique that is based upon the butterfly structure. BOFt is a parameter-efficient fineting technique that is based on orthogonal transformations. BOFT is a paramater-efficient finetuning technique based on orthogonal transformations. The BOFT approach is a parameter-efficient fineteuning technique that is based upon orthogonal transformations. BOFT, which relies on orthogonal transformations, is a parameter-efficient fine-tuning technique. BOFT, which employs orthogonal transformations, is a novel parameter-efficient fine-tuning approach. BOFT is an orthogonal finetuning technique that employs a parameter-efficient approach. BOFT is based on a parameter-efficient orthogonal fineteuning approach. BOFT, which makes use of a parameter-efficient orthogonal fineting approach, is a novel finetuning technique. The BOFT approach, which is based on a parameter efficient orthogonal finetuning approach, is a novel method for finetuning. BOFT is a fine-tuning technique that is based off of a parameter-efficient orthogonal transformation. BOFT utilizes a parameter-efficient orthogonal transformation for finetuning. The BOFT approach utilizes a parameter-efficient orthogonal fining transformation. BOFT is based upon a parameter-efficient orthogonal finiting transformation. BOFT is an approach that is based on an efficient orthogonal finetuning transformation. BOFT is the application of a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine transformation. BOFT is orthogonal finetuning that is parameter-efficient. BOft is a finetuning approach that employs an orthogonal transformation. BOft is a method for finetuning that utilizes an orthogonal transformation. BOFt is an orthogonal finetuing technique that employs a parameter efficient approach. BOFT is the use of a parameter-efficient finetuing technique that utilizes an orthogonal transformation.

BOFT is a finetuing technique that uses a parameter-efficient orthogonal transformation.

BOFT, which is based upon a parameter efficient orthogonal fineting transformation, is a novel fineting technique. BOFT is the utilization of a parameter-efficient orthogonal finteuning transformation. BOFT, based on a parameter-efficient finetueing transformation, is a novel method of finetuning. BOft is a technique for fineting that is based on an orthgonal transformation. BOFT is finetuning that is orthogonal and parameter-efficient. BOFT utilizes a finetuning technique based upon an orthogonal transformation. BOFO is a finetuning method that utilizes an orthogonal transformation for parameter-efficiency. BOFT is a form of finetuning that is both orthogonal and parameter-efficient. The BOFT approach employs a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetting transformation. BOFT is parameter-efficient finetuning that is also orthogonal. BOFT is a type of finetuning that utilizes a parameter-efficient orthogonal approach. BOFT is fineting that is both orthogonal and efficient. BOFT is a kind of finetuning that employs an orthogonal transformation and is also parameter-efficient.

BOFT is a form of orthogonal finetuning that also has parameter-efficiency. BOft is a form of fineting that is both orthgonal and parameter-efficient. BOft, which is both orthogonal and parameter efficient, is a finetuning strategy. BOFT is a variant of finetuning that incorporates both orthogonality and parameter-efficiency. BOFO is a form of fineteuning that is both orthogonal anf parameter-efficient. BOFT employs a parameter-efficient orthogonal transformation to finetune. BOFT is a variation of finetuning that includes both orthogonality as well as parameter-efficiency. BOFt is both orthogonal and parameter-effecient. BOFT is a version of finetuning that has both orthog
