--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning method that is based on the butterfly network structure. The butterfly network structure is a well-known network structure that is used in many applications, such as fast Fourier transform and MIMO radar. The butterfly network structure can be viewed as a composition of multiple sparse matrices. In BOFT, we represent the orthogonal matrix with a product of multiple sparse orthogonal matrices. To further improve the parameter-efficiency, we introduce a factorization method called the Cooley-Tukey algorithm to construct the sparse orthogonal matrices. BOFT can be viewed as a new member in the OFT family. BOFT has two hyperparameters, i.e., the block size and the butterfly layer number. With the increase of the butterfly layer number, BOFT achieves better performance than the original OFT. BOFT also has a comparable parameter efficiency with the block-diagonal OFT. BOFT is an effective parameter-efficient finetuning approach. We evaluate BOFT on large language models adaptation tasks, including sentiment classification, intent classification, and machine translation. BOFT outperforms the state-of-the-art parameter-efficient finetuning methods. We also evaluate BOFT on vision-related adaptation tasks, including classification and segmentation. BOFT also achieves better performance than the current state-of-the-art parameter efficient finetuning methods. Code and models will be publicly available.

Finetuning is a simple yet effective approach for adapting pre-trained models to downstream tasks. In this paper, we focus on studying parameter-efficient finetuning for adapting large language models (LLM) and vision models. There are two mainstream approaches for parameter-efficient finetuning, i.e., knowledge distillation (KD) based finetuning and adaptation based finetuning. Knowledge distillation based finetuning usually achieves better performance than the student model than the adaptation based finetuning, but it usually needs a teacher model and usually has a significant performance drop comparing with the teacher model. Adaptation based finetuning usually does not need a teacher model and it can achieve a performance close to the teacher model. In this paper,we focus on studying adaptation based parameter-efficient finetuning. There are many adaptation based parameter-efficient finitunig methods, such as low-rank finetuning (LRT) , information bottleneck finetuning (IBFT) , orthogonal finetuning (OFT ) and so on. Most of these methods improve the parameter-efficiency by constraining the finetuned weights to lie on a structured manifold, such as low-rakc manifold or manifolds formed by block-diagonal matrices. Although these methods achieve promising performance, they usually have a fixed structured manifold. To address this problem, OFT constructs the orthogonal matrix on the fly with a block-diagonal structure. Although OFT can achieve better performance than LRT and IBFT, OFT still has a significant parameter cost comparing with the low-rank finetunig methods. To further improve the paramter-efficiency of OFT, we propose a novel parameter-efficient OFT called BOFT. BOFT improves the parameter-efficiency of OFT by representing the orthogonal matrix with a composition of multiple sparse orthogonal matrices, which is called the butterfly network structure. We also propose a factorization method to construct the sparse orthogonal matrix. BOFT can be regarded as a new member in OFT family. BOft has two hyper-parameters, i.e., block size and butterfly layer number. Witht he increase of the butterfly layer, BOFT can achieve better performance than the original  OFT. BOFT has a comparable parameter efficiency comparing with the block-diagonal  OFT. BOft is an effective parameter-efficient  finetuning method. We evaluate BOFT  on large language models adaptation  tasks, including sentiment classification , intent classification and machine translation. BOft outperforms the stateof-the-art parameter-efficient finitunng methods. We also evaluate  BOFT on vision-related  adaptation tasks, including classification  and segmentation. BOFT  also achieves better performance than  the state-of-the-art  parameter-efficient finetuning  methods.

Related Work
Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT). There are many PEFT methods, such as LLMs finetuning  with a low-rank constraint  and information bottleneck  . Another mainstream PEFT method is to finetune the model with a knowledge distillation loss  . In this paper, we only review the adaptation based PEFT methods. There are many adaptation-based PEFT methods, such  as 1-bit finetuning  , gray-box finetuning  , re-scaled finetuning  , orthogonal finetuning  , etc. These methods usually finetune the model by constraining the finituned weights to lie on some structured manifolds, such as low-rack manifolds or block-diagonal manifolds. Orthogonal finetuning (Oft)  is an effective adaptation-based PEFT method. OFT finetunes the model with an orthogonal matrix to transform the weights. OFT usually has
