--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient finetuning technique that is based on the butterfly structure, which is commonly used in computer networks to reduce the number of interconnects between nodes. BOFT is a straightforward extension of OFT, which is a well-known and effective finetuning technique. BOFT is a parameter-efficient finituning technique that is based directly on the butterfly structure, a well-known structure in computer networks that is used to reduce the number of connections between nodes. BOFT has a parameter efficiency that is comparable to that of LoRA, while it also has the ability to generalize to larger models. BOFT is a general-purpose finetuning technique that can be used with any type of neural network. BOFT is a simple and effective method for finetuning large models. It is a general-purpose finetting technique that can be used for any type of neural network.

The authors of this paper have developed a new finetuning technique called BOFT, which is based on the butterfly network structure. This technique is more parameter-efficient than OFT and its block-diagonal counterpart. BOFT is a new finetuning method that is based on the idea of the butterfly network structure. It is more parameter-efficient than the OFT and its block diagonal counterpart. BOFT is an efficient finetuning technique that has been shown to be effective in a variety of applications. BOFT is a versatile finetuning technique that works well with a wide range of models. BOFT is an effective finetuning technique that performs well in a variety of applications.

The authors of this study have developed a new finetting technique called BOFT, based on the butterfly network architecture. This technique is more efficient than OFT and its diagonal block counterpart. BOFT is more efficient than OFTs and its block-diagonal counterparts. BOFT is a novel finetuning technique that uses the butterfly network structure. BOFT is more parameter-efficient than both OFT and its blockdiagonal counterpart. BOFT has been shown to be an effective finetuning method in a variety of applications, including natural language processing and computer vision. BOFT is a flexible finetuning technique that adapts well to a wide range of models.

The authors of this work have developed a new finettin technique called BOFT, that is based on the Butterfly network structure. This technique has a higher parameter efficiency than OFT and its Block-diagonal counterpart. BOft is a new finetin technique that is based on Butterfly network structure. BOft is more parameter efficient than OFT and Block-diagonal counterpart. The authors of this paper have introduced a new finetin method called BOft, which is based on Butterfly network. BOft is more efficient than OFt and Block-diagonal counterpart in terms of parameter efficiency. BOft is a general finetin technique that can be used in a variety of applications such as NLP and CV. BOft is a flexible finetin technique that works well with different models.

The authors of the paper have introduced a new method for finetuning called BOFT, which uses the butterfly network structure and is more parameter-efficient than previous methods. BOFT is a more parameter-efficient finetuning method than OFT and its diago-nal block counterpart. BOFT uses the butterfly network structure to improve parameter efficiency. BOFT is a method for finetuning that is based on the structure of the butterfly network. BOFT is more effective than OFT and its diagonally block counterpart in terms of parameter effi-ciency. BOFT is a finetuning technique that generalizes to a wide range of applications, including natural lan-guage processing and computer vision. The authors of this work have introduced a new finetting technique, BOFT, which is more parameter-efficient than other finetuning techniques. BOFT is based on the butterfly net-work structure and is more parameter efficient than the OFT and block-diagonal counterparts. The authors of this study have introduced a new finettin method called BOFT, which utilizes the butterfly network structure. The BOFT method is more parameter efficient than both OFT and the block-diagonal counterpart. The BOFT method has been shown to be a powerful finettin technique in a variety of applications including NLP and CV. The BOFT method can be used with a wide range of model architectures.

The authors of this research have developed a new finnetting technique called BOFT, whcih is based on the butterfly networks. BOFT is more effecient than OFT and its blok-diagonal counterpart. BOFt is a new finetning technique that is based on butterfly networks. BOFT has a higher parameter efficiency compared to OFT and its block-diaogonal counterpart. BOFT is based o the butterfly network structure and it is more parameter efficient than other finetning techniques. BOFT is a powerful finetning technique that has been shown effective in a variety of application including NLP and CV.

The authors of this article have developed a new fineting technique called BOFT
