--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be helpful to you.

LLMs are getting bigger and bigger

The size of LLMs is growing rapidly. In 2021, the largest open-source LLM was GPT-3 with 175B parameters. In 2022, the largest open-source model was GPT-4 with 65B parameters. In 2018, the largest model was GPT-2 with 1.5B parameters. The number of parameters has increased by 44 times in 4 years.

The number of parameters is not the only indicator of the size of LLMs. The memory consumption is also important. The memory consumption of LLMs is proportional to the square of the number of parameters. The memory consumption of GPT-4 is 3.5 GB. The memory consumption of the 33B parameter LLaMA is 2.9 GB. The memory consumption is proportional to the number of parameters squared.

The number of operations is also important. The number of operations is proportional to the number or parameters. The number of operations of GPT-4 and LLaMA is 11 TFLOPs. The number of operations grows linearly with the number of parameters.

The cost of LLMs is also important. The cost is proportional to the number and size of the chips. The cost of GPT-4 chips is $ 9.6 billion. The cost of LLaMA chips is $ 3.2 billion.

The cost of LLaMA is 1/3 of the cost of GPT-3. The cost of LLMs grows exponentially with the number of parameters. If we double the number of parameters, the cost will increase 8 times.

The cost of LMMs is also important. LMMs are 1.58-bit LLMs. The cost of LMMs with 33B parameters is $ 480 million. The cost of Lmm-34 is 1/20 of the cost of Gpt-4. The cost of Lmms grows linearly with the size of the model.

The performance of LLMs is important. The performance is measured by the score on benchmarks. The score on benchmarks is proportional to the number, size, and cost of LLMs. If we double the size of the model, the score will increase 1.26 times.

The performance of LMMs is important. The score on benchmarks of LMMs is proportional to the number size, and cost of the model. If we double the cost of the model, the performance will increase 1.58 times.

The energy consumption of LLMs and LMMs is important too. The energy consumption is proportional to the cost of the model. The energy consumption of LMMs is 1/32 of the energy consumption of LLM. The energy consumption of the 33b parameter LLaMA is $ 1.2 million. The energy consumption of 33b parameter LMM is $ 37 thousand.

The time to train LLMs and LLMs is important too. Training time is proportional to the cost and size of the model. The training time of LMMs is much shorter than the training time of LLMs. LMMs can be trained on a single GPU in 1 day.

The inference time of LLMs and 1.58-bit LLMS is important too. The inference time is proportional to the number parameters and the size of the model. LMMs have a much shorter inference time than LLMs. LLMs can be run on a single GPU in real-time.

The latency of LLMs and LLMS is important too.

The latency is proportional to the size of the model and the number of operations. LMMs have much lower latency than LLMs. The latency of LMMs is less than 1 ms.

The throughput of LLMs and the throughput of 1.58-bit llms is important too. The throughput is proportional to the number operations and the size of the models. The throughput of LMMs is higher than the throughput of LLMs. You can run LMMs on a single GPU with a throughput of 100 B tokens per second.

The memory bandwidth of LLMs and llms is important too.

The memory bandwidth is proportional to the size and number of operations. The memory bandwidth of LMMs is lower than the memory bandwidth of LLM. The memory bandwidth of 33b parameter llms is 11 GB/s. The memory bandwidth of GPT-4 65b parameter is 77 GB/s.

The power consumption of LLMs, llms, and 1.58 bit llms is important too

The power consumption is proportional to the size, number of operations, and cost of the models. The power consumption of LMMs and 1.57-bit LLMs is much lower than the power consumption of LLM. LMMs can run on a single
