\title{Stack Exchange of the Paper: "Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model"}

### Why must we use discrete sampling for evaluation if we're comparing reward/KL frontiers?
Question:
In Section 5, Fig 1 ('frontier-tldr-main'), there are two sub-plots or contexts discussed: one for controlled sentiment generation where they compute exact Reward and KL-divergence frontiers without sampling, and one for summarization/dialogue where they must sample completions at various temperatures.

If we have access to ground-truth rewards ($r^*$) like in sentiment generation why can't we just evaluate gradient ascent performance on the theoretical objective without generating samples? Conversely, if we don't have ground truth rewards (summarization), why does measuring win rates against best-of-N sampled baselines matter so much compared to just measuring KL divergence from reference? It seems there's an extrapolation from theoretical optimality (minimizing KL-constrained reward) to empirical behavior observed only through stochastic sampling that I am missing. Is it possible for a policy to optimize Eq. 8 perfectly but fail on actual generation quality without sampling?
Answer:
In "Direct Preference Optimization," the necessity of discrete sampling versus direct computation arises from the fundamental difference in how we evaluate optimization success in environments with and without a known, differentiable ground-truth reward function.

In the controlled sentiment generation experiments, the authors explicitly generate preference pairs using a pre-trained sentiment classifier. Because this classifier acts as a known, deterministic function mapping text to a scalar score, the authors can compute the exact theoretical reward $r^*(y, x)$ for every generated completion. This allows them to construct precise Reward-KL frontiers by calculating two quantities directly: the expected reward under the policy, $\mathbb{E}_{y \sim \pi_\theta}[r^*(y, x)]$, and the KL-divergence relative to the reference policy. Since the objective function in Equation 8 (the RLHF objective) depends on an expectation over sequences that are typically discrete and stochastic, one might intuitively expect that computing this expectation requires sampling. However, in this specific controlled setting, because the output space for each token is small and finite (the vocabulary size), and more importantly because they are using an external oracle to assign scores to those tokens, they can approximate these expectations very accurately using high-frequency greedy sampling or even compute them directly over a manageable set of candidates if restricted appropriately. The crucial point is not that they avoid sampling entirely, but that they *have access to the metric* required to define what "optimal" means for that specific run of optimization. They know exactly what $r^*$ is, so they can measure how far any given policy is from solving Eq. 8 perfectly without needing a noisy proxy like "win rate."

Conversely, in summarization and dialogue tasks, there is no such ground-truth reward function $r^*$. Human preferences do not conform to a simple scalar value that an automated model can output with high fidelity; they are inherently comparative and contextual. In these settings, evaluating whether a policy has optimized Eq. 8 becomes impossible by direct calculation because $r^*$ is unknown. The paper posits that optimizing Eq. 8 implies producing responses that would win against other candidates when judged by humans (or a human proxy like GPT-4). Therefore, the metric of success shifts from "expected reward magnitude" to "ability to defeat alternative completions." This necessitates generating samples via discrete sampling (often using methods like Best-of-$N$ or temperature-based generation) to compare against strong baselines or reference responses. If you were to stop at just measuring KL divergence from the reference policy without sampling and comparing actual output quality against baselines using GPT-4 win rates, you would be ignoring one half of Eq. 8: the reward maximization term. A model could theoretically achieve a perfect KL match with large vacuum cleaner sentences while completely failing on summary quality if it hasn't been optimized correctly; if no ground truth exists to penalize this deviation in your loss function during training (which DPO solves via implicit rewards), then your only way to verify performance post-training is empirical comparison via sampling run-offs against high-quality baselines.

Thus, sampling matters because it bridges the gap between theoretical optimality defined by an unknown human preference distribution and empirical verification of quality when no analytical reward model exists. When $r^*$ is known (sentiment), you can map probability distributions directly back into scalar values; when it is unknown (summarization), you must rely on stochastic generation and pairwise comparisons against established baselines to infer if your policy has successfully aligned with those hidden preferences. Explaining how DPO works in DPO's own words