In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit described the defendants, who were indicted for securities fraud, as being involved in a “pump and dump” scheme.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", after concluding that the charging document failed to allege a scheme to deprive victims of any traditional property interest, the district court dismissed the indictment.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the Fifth Circuit reviews the sufficiency of an indictment de novo.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants argued that the district court properly dismissed the indictment because it failed to allege that their followers were deprived of a protected property interest.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", discussing the Supreme Court’s decision in Ciminelli and the government’s right-to-control theory of wire fraud, the opinion identifies the victim’s property as the right to control [his] assets.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the opinion distinguished the indictment from the right-to-control theory discussed in Ciminelli and explained that the defendants allegedly induced their followers, through misrepresentations, to purchase securities, which meant parting with their money or property.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", in the Fifth Circuit securities-fraud prosecution based on a "pump and dump" scheme, the superseding indictment alleged that the defendants used social-media posts to induce followers to buy securities by misrepresenting their trading positions
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the Fifth Circuit described a superseding indictment in a securities-fraud case involving an alleged “pump and dump” scheme as alleging that the defendants’ social-media posts had the effect of artificially inflating the securities’ prices
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", in the district court ruling dismissing a securities-fraud indictment in a "pump and dump" scheme case that was reviewed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, the district court concluded that the indictment merely alleged the defendants sought to deprive their followers of potentially valuable economic information
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit concluded that the securities-fraud indictment arising from an alleged pump-and-dump scheme sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the government alleges that Edward Constantinescu, Perry “PJ” Matlock, John Rybarczyk, Gary Deel, Stefan Hrvatin, Tom Cooperman, Mitchell Hennessey, and Daniel Knight engaged in a scheme to “pump and dump” securities.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", where the government alleged that Edward Constantinescu and the other defendants engaged in a scheme to "pump and dump" securities, the opinion states that they held themselves out to be skilled stock traders.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the government alleged that, to “pump” a security’s price, the defendants posted false and misleading information about the security on [social media]
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the government alleged that the defendants engaged in a securities "pump and dump" scheme in which they artificially increased the security’s price and then "dumped" it by secretly selling the security for a profit
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the federal indictment charged conspiracy to commit securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants were indicted for conspiracy to commit securities fraud and for multiple counts of securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348 & 2.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the district court dismissed the indictment on the ground that it did not adequately allege that the defendants schemed to deprive victims of any traditional property interest
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", when the Fifth Circuit reviews the sufficiency of an indictment de novo, it must take the allegations of the indictment as true.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", when reviewing the sufficiency of an indictment and taking the indictment’s allegations as true, the Fifth Circuit must determine whether an offense has been stated.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the Fifth Circuit, quoting United States v. Gaytan, stated that an indictment must enumerate each prima facie element of the charged offense.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the court stated that, to be sufficient, an indictment must allege each material element of the offense
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", 18 U.S.C. § 1348 prohibits schemes to obtain any money or property.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when discussing the securities fraud statute, § 1348 borrows key concepts from the mail and wire fraud statutes
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", and applying the cited standard for securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1348, the government must prove a “scheme to defraud”
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", and in light of the court’s discussion of securities fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1348, the scheme to defraud must be enacted with an “intent to defraud.”
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the securities fraud statute’s “scheme to defraud” element requires a material misrepresentation.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when explaining the "scheme to defraud" element of securities fraud, a material misrepresentation must be intended to deceive others in order to obtain something of value, such as money, from the [entity] to be deceived.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the securities fraud statute’s "intent to defraud" element requires an intent to do two things; first, to deceive
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the opinion explains that the securities fraud statute’s “intent to defraud” element requires an intent to do two things, the second of which is cause some harm to result from the deceit
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the summarized rule says a defendant committed securities fraud only if obtaining the victim’s money or property was an object of the fraud and he had “‘engaged in deception’”.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants argued that the indictment was insufficient under the securities fraud statute because, in addition to lacking an allegation of intent to defraud, it did not allege a scheme to defraud.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants argued that the indictment was insufficient because they contended it did not allege an intent to defraud.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the court was discussing the defendants’ argument that the indictment did not allege a scheme to defraud or an intent to defraud under the securities fraud statute, and, according to that view, the indictment allegedly said they intended to deprive their followers of valuable economic information
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants argued that the indictment did not allege an intent to defraud because it said they were trying to deprive their followers of valuable economic information, not money or property, and instead alleged that they intended to enrich themselves
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants argued on appeal that the district court properly dismissed the indictment.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", where the defendants argued that the indictment did not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest, the opinion states that a defendant cannot be convicted of fraud for depriving an individual of potentially valuable economic information alone.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", although the defendants argued that the district court properly dismissed the indictment because it did not allege a scheme to deprive their followers of a protected property interest, the opinion states that the indictment properly alleged the defendants’ scheme to defraud their followers of money.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the Supreme Court held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information in Ciminelli
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Ciminelli, which held that a fraud conviction cannot be based solely on the deprivation of valuable economic information.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the Supreme Court discussed the facts in Ciminelli, where Ciminelli’s construction company paid a lobbyist
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when discussing Ciminelli, Ciminelli’s construction company was trying to obtain, with the help of a lobbyist, state-funded jobs.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the Court explained that the federal fraud statutes protect only traditional property interests
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the indictment alleges that the defendants induced their followers to purchase securities and part with money or property through misrepresentations
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", where the indictment alleges a fraudulent-inducement theory rather than a right-to-control theory, a defendant uses a material misstatement
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court says that the right-to-control theory was rejected in Ciminelli.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", in considering whether the indictment ran afoul of Ciminelli, the court noted that the indictment alleged defendants fraudulently induced their followers to buy securities and deprived them of a protected property interest
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the indictment does not run afoul of Ciminelli because it alleges that the defendants deprived their followers of a protected property interest by fraudulently inducing them to buy securities
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants argued that the indictment was deficient because it failed to allege an intent to defraud.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", defendants argued that the indictment failed to allege intent to defraud because it alleged defendants intended to profit from their scheme.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants argued that the indictment failed to allege an intent to defraud because it alleged they intended to profit from the scheme rather than harm any victim, but the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of a similar argument confirms that the fraud statutes do not require a victim to suffer an economic loss.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", in Kousisis, the thing the defendant lied to obtain from a state department of transportation was contracts.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed Kousisis, where the defendant lied to obtain contracts with a state department of transportation.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the opinion discussing Kousisis and a state transportation contract requirement explains that the state required contractors to subcontract with a disadvantaged business, and Kousisis falsely represented that his company would fulfill that requirement.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the court discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, where the defendant falsely represented that his company would satisfy a disadvantaged-business subcontracting requirement in order to obtain state transportation contracts, and once his company was awarded the contracts, Kousisis used the disadvantaged-business subcontractor as “a mere ‘pass-through’ entity.”
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", when Kousisis’s lie came to light, the government charged him under the fraudulent-inducement theory.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", discussing the Supreme Court’s decision in Kousisis, the opinion explains that under the “fraudulent-inducement theory” a defendant tricks a victim into entering a contract by using a material misstatement
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", in Kousisis, the theory the defendant argued could not stand because it permitted conviction without evidence that he sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line was the fraudulent-inducement theory.
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", Kousisis argued that the fraudulent-inducement theory allowed a conviction even without evidence that the defendant sought to hurt the victim’s bottom line.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the court quoted Kousisis as holding that a defendant may violate the fraud statutes regardless of whether he seeks to leave the victim economically worse off.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", where the court was considering whether the indictment sufficiently alleged an intent to defraud, the indictment alleged that the defendants posted false and misleading information about the security . . . so that other investors were induced to purchase the security
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", the indictment alleged that defendants posted false and misleading information about the security so that the investors induced to purchase the security were other investors.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the defendants argued that their followers received market-value securities, so the fraud charges should fail. The opinion says the fraud statutes do not require actual economic harm.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", although the defendants argued that the fraud charges should fail because their followers were not actually economically harmed, the opinion stated that the followers received market-value securities
According to the opinion in "United States v. Constantinescu", Kousisis concluded that a defendant may be liable for fraud even when he provides something of equal value in return, including money, property, or services.
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", where the defendants argued that the indictment failed to allege an injury because their alleged scheme was aimed at profit rather than harm, the indictment said they fraudulently induced their followers to purchase securities
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the court held that the indictment adequately alleged injury for the fraud charges because it alleged defendants’ fraudulently inducing their followers to purchase securities
In the case "United States v. Constantinescu", the court of appeals reviewed the district court’s dismissal of the indictment and reversed, saying the indictment sufficiently alleges a scheme and intent to defraud
