----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Large Language Models (LLMs), with their remarkable ability to tackle challenging and unseen reasoning problems, hold immense potential for tabular learning, that is vital for many real-world applications.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", Large Language Models (LLMs) are described as having a remarkable ability to tackle challenging and unseen reasoning problems.
target:  challenging and unseen reasoning problems.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", Large Language Models (LLMs) are described as having a remarkable ability to tackle

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Large Language Models (LLMs), with their remarkable ability to tackle challenging and unseen reasoning problems, hold immense potential for tabular learning, that is vital for many real-world applications.
fact: According to the paper, Large Language Models (LLMs), with their ability to tackle challenging and unseen reasoning problems, are said to hold immense potential for tabular learning.
target:  tabular learning.
probe: According to the paper, Large Language Models (LLMs), with their ability to tackle challenging and unseen reasoning problems, are said to hold immense potential for

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The generated features are used to infer class likelihood with a simple downstream machine learning model, such as linear regression and yields high performance few-shot learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the generated features help infer, with a simple downstream machine learning model such as linear regression in the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework, class likelihood.
target:  class likelihood.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the generated features help infer, with a simple downstream machine learning model such as linear regression in the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework,

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The generated features are used to infer class likelihood with a simple downstream machine learning model, such as linear regression and yields high performance few-shot learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the simple downstream machine learning model given as an example for inferring class likelihood from the generated features is linear regression.
target:  linear regression.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the simple downstream machine learning model given as an example for inferring class likelihood from the generated features is

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The generated features are used to infer class likelihood with a simple downstream machine learning model, such as linear regression and yields high performance few-shot learning.
fact: When the generated features are used to infer class likelihood with a simple downstream machine learning model such as linear regression, the result is high performance few-shot learning.
target:  high performance few-shot learning.
probe: When the generated features are used to infer class likelihood with a simple downstream machine learning model such as linear regression, the result is

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework only uses this simple predictive model with the discovered features at inference time.
fact: At inference time, after the features have been discovered, the proposed `\textsf{FeatLLM}` framework uses this simple predictive model with the discovered features.
target:  this simple predictive model with the discovered features.
probe: At inference time, after the features have been discovered, the proposed `\textsf{FeatLLM}` framework uses

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework only uses this simple predictive model with the discovered features at inference time.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed $\textsf{FeatLLM}$ framework uses the simple predictive model with the discovered features at inference time.
target:  at inference time.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed $\textsf{FeatLLM}$ framework uses the simple predictive model with the discovered features

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Compared to existing LLM-based approaches, \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to send queries to the LLM for each sample at inference time.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", compared to existing LLM-based approaches, \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to do the following for each sample at inference time: send queries to the LLM
target:  send queries to the LLM
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", compared to existing LLM-based approaches, \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to do the following for each sample at inference time:

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Compared to existing LLM-based approaches, \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to send queries to the LLM for each sample at inference time.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to send queries to the LLM for each sample at inference time.
target:  inference time.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} eliminates the need to send queries to the LLM for each sample at

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, it merely requires API-level access to LLMs, and overcomes prompt size limitations.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework merely requires API-level access.
target:  API-level access.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework merely requires

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, it merely requires API-level access to LLMs, and overcomes prompt size limitations.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework overcomes prompt size limitations.
target:  prompt size limitations.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the proposed \textsf{FeatLLM} framework overcomes

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As demonstrated across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} generates high-quality rules, significantly (10\% on average) outperforming alternatives such as TabLLM and STUNT.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} generates high-quality rules.
target:  high-quality rules.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} generates

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As demonstrated across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} generates high-quality rules, significantly (10\% on average) outperforming alternatives such as TabLLM and STUNT.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} outperforms alternatives such as TabLLM and STUNT by an average of 10\%.
target:  10\%.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} outperforms alternatives such as TabLLM and STUNT by an average of

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As demonstrated across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, \textsf{FeatLLM} generates high-quality rules, significantly (10\% on average) outperforming alternatives such as TabLLM and STUNT.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, the alternatives specifically mentioned as being outperformed by \textsf{FeatLLM} are TabLLM and STUNT.
target:  TabLLM and STUNT.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", across numerous tabular datasets from a wide range of domains, the alternatives specifically mentioned as being outperformed by \textsf{FeatLLM} are

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive abilities for generating suitable responses for previously unseen tasks without requiring task-specific fine-tuning~\cite{creswell2022selection,imani2023mathprompter,taylor2022galactica}.
fact: Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive abilities to generate for previously unseen tasks without requiring task-specific fine-tuning suitable responses.
target:  suitable responses.
probe: Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive abilities to generate for previously unseen tasks without requiring task-specific fine-tuning

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive abilities for generating suitable responses for previously unseen tasks without requiring task-specific fine-tuning~\cite{creswell2022selection,imani2023mathprompter,taylor2022galactica}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors say Large Language Models can generate suitable responses for previously unseen tasks without requiring task-specific fine-tuning.
target:  task-specific fine-tuning.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors say Large Language Models can generate suitable responses for previously unseen tasks without requiring

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Trained on extensive text corpora, the rich prior knowledge of LLMs can substitute the need for expert domain knowledge in many areas~\cite{Genomes2021,singhal2023large,wilcox2003role}, playing a crucial role in the automation of diverse applications, including dialogue analysis~\cite{finch2023leveraging} and program repair~\cite{fan2023automated}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the rich prior knowledge of LLMs can substitute what is often required in many areas: expert domain knowledge.
target:  expert domain knowledge.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the rich prior knowledge of LLMs can substitute what is often required in many areas:

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Trained on extensive text corpora, the rich prior knowledge of LLMs can substitute the need for expert domain knowledge in many areas~\cite{Genomes2021,singhal2023large,wilcox2003role}, playing a crucial role in the automation of diverse applications, including dialogue analysis~\cite{finch2023leveraging} and program repair~\cite{fan2023automated}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the rich prior knowledge of LLMs plays a crucial role in the automation of the application involving conversation known as dialogue analysis.
target:  dialogue analysis.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the rich prior knowledge of LLMs plays a crucial role in the automation of the application involving conversation known as

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Trained on extensive text corpora, the rich prior knowledge of LLMs can substitute the need for expert domain knowledge in many areas~\cite{Genomes2021,singhal2023large,wilcox2003role}, playing a crucial role in the automation of diverse applications, including dialogue analysis~\cite{finch2023leveraging} and program repair~\cite{fan2023automated}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", besides dialogue analysis, the other application mentioned as being automated with the help of LLMs' prior knowledge is program repair
target:  program repair
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", besides dialogue analysis, the other application mentioned as being automated with the help of LLMs' prior knowledge is

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Particularly, by incorporating a task description and few examples into prompts, LLMs can understand the context of a task and ``attend" to important features and examples~\cite{brown2020language,zhao2023survey}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prompts can incorporate a task description and few examples.
target:  a task description and few examples.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prompts can incorporate

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Particularly, by incorporating a task description and few examples into prompts, LLMs can understand the context of a task and ``attend" to important features and examples~\cite{brown2020language,zhao2023survey}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by incorporating a task description and few examples into prompts, LLMs can understand the task context and attend to important features and examples.
target:  important features and examples.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by incorporating a task description and few examples into prompts, LLMs can understand the task context and attend to

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This demonstrates the capability of LLMs to analyze data, highlighting their potential to perform as an expert feature engineer.
fact: The paper states that the demonstrated capability of LLMs, highlighting their potential to perform as an expert feature engineer, is to analyze data.
target:  analyze data.
probe: The paper states that the demonstrated capability of LLMs, highlighting their potential to perform as an expert feature engineer, is to

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This demonstrates the capability of LLMs to analyze data, highlighting their potential to perform as an expert feature engineer.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that LLMs can analyze data, highlighting their potential to perform as an expert feature engineer.
target:  an expert feature engineer.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that LLMs can analyze data, highlighting their potential to perform as

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Utilization of LLMs' prior knowledge and reasoning capabilities have been extended to the domain of tabular learning.
fact: The utilization of LLMs' prior knowledge and reasoning capabilities has been extended to the domain of tabular learning.
target:  the domain of tabular learning.
probe: The utilization of LLMs' prior knowledge and reasoning capabilities has been extended to

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For instance, knowledge such as related to the increased risk of certain diseases in older individuals can be beneficial at disease prediction tasks.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", disease prediction tasks can benefit from knowledge about groups at increased risk of certain diseases, such as older individuals.
target:  older individuals.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", disease prediction tasks can benefit from knowledge about groups at increased risk of certain diseases, such as

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this context, recent works define task and feature descriptions in natural language, serialize the data, and then feed it into an LLM~\cite{dinh2022lift,wang2023anypredict}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in recent LLM-based tabular learning works, task and feature descriptions are defined in the form of natural language.
target:  natural language.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in recent LLM-based tabular learning works, task and feature descriptions are defined in the form of

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this context, recent works define task and feature descriptions in natural language, serialize the data, and then feed it into an LLM~\cite{dinh2022lift,wang2023anypredict}.
fact: In recent works on tabular learning that define task and feature descriptions in natural language and serialize the data, the serialized data is fed into an LLM.
target:  an LLM.
probe: In recent works on tabular learning that define task and feature descriptions in natural language and serialize the data, the serialized data is fed into

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is often followed by either using in-context learning~\cite{nam2023semi} or parameter-efficient fine-tuning~\cite{dinh2022lift,hegselmann2023tabllm}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after recent works define task and feature descriptions in natural language, serialize the tabular data, and feed it into an LLM, the approach often used next besides parameter-efficient fine-tuning is in-context learning.
target:  in-context learning.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after recent works define task and feature descriptions in natural language, serialize the tabular data, and feed it into an LLM, the approach often used next besides parameter-efficient fine-tuning is

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is often followed by either using in-context learning~\cite{nam2023semi} or parameter-efficient fine-tuning~\cite{dinh2022lift,hegselmann2023tabllm}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after task and feature descriptions are defined in natural language, the data are serialized and fed into an LLM. The kind of fine-tuning often used as an alternative to in-context learning is parameter-efficient fine-tuning.
target:  parameter-efficient fine-tuning.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after task and feature descriptions are defined in natural language, the data are serialized and fed into an LLM. The kind of fine-tuning often used as an alternative to in-context learning is

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior knowledge provided by LLMs has proven effective, outperforming conventional tabular learning baselines in low-shot regimes~\cite{hegselmann2023tabllm}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prior knowledge provided by LLMs has been shown to outperform, in low-shot regimes, conventional tabular learning baselines.
target:  conventional tabular learning baselines.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", prior knowledge provided by LLMs has been shown to outperform, in low-shot regimes,

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Prior knowledge provided by LLMs has proven effective, outperforming conventional tabular learning baselines in low-shot regimes~\cite{hegselmann2023tabllm}.
fact: According to the paper, prior knowledge provided by LLMs has proven effective, outperforming conventional tabular learning baselines, in low-shot regimes.
target:  low-shot regimes.
probe: According to the paper, prior knowledge provided by LLMs has proven effective, outperforming conventional tabular learning baselines, in

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For end-to-end predictions, at least one LLM inference per sample is required, making it computationally expensive.
fact: According to the paper **"Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"**, for end-to-end predictions in LLM-based tabular learning, the number of LLM inferences required per sample, making the method computationally expensive, is at least one
target:  at least one
probe: According to the paper **"Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"**, for end-to-end predictions in LLM-based tabular learning, the number of LLM inferences required per sample, making the method computationally expensive, is

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For end-to-end predictions, at least one LLM inference per sample is required, making it computationally expensive.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", requiring at least one LLM inference per sample makes end-to-end predictions computationally expensive.
target:  computationally expensive.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", requiring at least one LLM inference per sample makes end-to-end predictions

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Most methods require fine-tuning the LLM for high accuracy, making them infeasible to the application to the LLMs that do not come with accessible training codebases or tuning APIs, a prominent concern given that
recently-proposed top-performance LLMs only permit limited access via inference APIs~\cite{anil2023palm,openai2023gpt4}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most methods require fine-tuning the LLM.
target:  fine-tuning the LLM.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most methods require

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Most methods require fine-tuning the LLM for high accuracy, making them infeasible to the application to the LLMs that do not come with accessible training codebases or tuning APIs, a prominent concern given that
recently-proposed top-performance LLMs only permit limited access via inference APIs~\cite{anil2023palm,openai2023gpt4}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most methods require adapting the LLM to achieve high accuracy, making them infeasible for models without accessible training codebases or tuning APIs.
target:  tuning APIs.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most methods require adapting the LLM to achieve high accuracy, making them infeasible for models without accessible training codebases or

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Most methods require fine-tuning the LLM for high accuracy, making them infeasible to the application to the LLMs that do not come with accessible training codebases or tuning APIs, a prominent concern given that
recently-proposed top-performance LLMs only permit limited access via inference APIs~\cite{anil2023palm,openai2023gpt4}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recently proposed top-performance LLMs only permit limited access via inference APIs.
target:  inference APIs.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recently proposed top-performance LLMs only permit limited access via

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In addition, most approaches are not suitable with lengthy prompts~\cite{liu2023lost} -- when the number of features in tabular data grows to the point where the serialized text length becomes long, the approach often turns infeasible or experiences a decline in performance.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most approaches are not suitable when the number of features in tabular data makes the serialized text long, resulting in lengthy prompts.
target:  lengthy prompts.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most approaches are not suitable when the number of features in tabular data makes the serialized text long, resulting in

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In addition, most approaches are not suitable with lengthy prompts~\cite{liu2023lost} -- when the number of features in tabular data grows to the point where the serialized text length becomes long, the approach often turns infeasible or experiences a decline in performance.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most approaches that are not suitable for lengthy prompts become infeasible or experience a decline in performance when the number of features in tabular data grows
target:  when the number of features in tabular data grows
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", most approaches that are not suitable for lengthy prompts become infeasible or experience a decline in performance

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In addition, most approaches are not suitable with lengthy prompts~\cite{liu2023lost} -- when the number of features in tabular data grows to the point where the serialized text length becomes long, the approach often turns infeasible or experiences a decline in performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," as the number of features in tabular data grows and the serialized text length and prompt become long, most approaches reach a point where the method turns infeasible or experiences a decline in performance.
target:  turns infeasible or experiences a decline in performance.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," as the number of features in tabular data grows and the serialized text length and prompt become long, most approaches reach a point where the method

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These constraints pose fundamental challenges to the real-world application of LLM-based tabular learning models.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", limited inference API access and difficulty handling lengthy prompts pose fundamental challenges.
target:  fundamental challenges.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", limited inference API access and difficulty handling lengthy prompts pose

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Instead, we assign them the role of feature engineering, with them proposing a more efficient way to utilize their prior knowledge.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors assign LLMs the role of feature engineering.
target:  feature engineering.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors assign LLMs the role of

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Instead, we assign them the role of feature engineering, with them proposing a more efficient way to utilize their prior knowledge.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the proposed approach that assigns large language models the role of feature engineering instead of end-to-end prediction, they propose a more efficient way to utilize their prior knowledge.
target:  their prior knowledge.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the proposed approach that assigns large language models the role of feature engineering instead of end-to-end prediction, they propose a more efficient way to utilize

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we introduce a novel in-context learning framework, \textsf{FeatLLM}, which aims to understand the ``criteria" underlying LLM predictions.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the name of the novel in-context learning framework introduced by the authors that aims to understand the "criteria" underlying LLM predictions is `\textsf{FeatLLM}`.
target:  `\textsf{FeatLLM}`.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the name of the novel in-context learning framework introduced by the authors that aims to understand the "criteria" underlying LLM predictions is

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we introduce a novel in-context learning framework, \textsf{FeatLLM}, which aims to understand the ``criteria" underlying LLM predictions.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the novel in-context learning framework \textsf{FeatLLM} aims to understand the underlying basis of LLM predictions, namely the ``criteria"".
target:  the ``criteria"".
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the novel in-context learning framework \textsf{FeatLLM} aims to understand the underlying basis of LLM predictions, namely

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For instance, for the task of predicting a particular disease, the LLM can directly infer and generate rules that determine which feature conditions result in identifying the disease.
fact: In the proposed FeatLLM framework for feature engineering, for the task of predicting a particular disease, the LLM can directly infer and generate the conditions that identify the disease as rules.
target:  rules.
probe: In the proposed FeatLLM framework for feature engineering, for the task of predicting a particular disease, the LLM can directly infer and generate the conditions that identify the disease as

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The criteria (or rules) are used to create new features that can replace existing ones in solving tasks.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the items used in the description of the \textsf{FeatLLM} in-context learning framework to create new features that can replace existing ones in solving tasks are The criteria (or rules).
target:  The criteria (or rules).
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the items used in the description of the \textsf{FeatLLM} in-context learning framework to create new features that can replace existing ones in solving tasks are

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The criteria (or rules) are used to create new features that can replace existing ones in solving tasks.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", within the proposed in-context learning framework FeatLLM, the criteria or rules inferred by the LLM are used to create new features
target:  new features
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", within the proposed in-context learning framework FeatLLM, the criteria or rules inferred by the LLM are used to create

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This approach shifts the capability of the LLM to feature generation, yielding a simpler downstream model -- once the features are discovered, a complex machine learning model is no longer needed for inference, improving the inference latency.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that once the features are discovered, what is no longer needed for inference, thereby improving the inference latency, is a complex machine learning model.
target:  a complex machine learning model.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that once the features are discovered, what is no longer needed for inference, thereby improving the inference latency, is

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By leveraging the in-context learning ability of LLMs, it's possible to extract features without the need for model training, by adding example demonstrations to the prompts.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", according to the authors, features can be extracted without the need for model training when leveraging the in-context learning ability of LLMs using example demonstrations.
target:  example demonstrations.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", according to the authors, features can be extracted without the need for model training when leveraging the in-context learning ability of LLMs using

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, by employing techniques from ensemble methods~\cite{breiman2001random}, like feature bagging, we can mitigate the challenge of excessive prompt size.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors discuss using techniques from ensemble methods to address the challenge of excessive prompt size when engineering new features. The technique they mention is feature bagging.
target:  feature bagging.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors discuss using techniques from ensemble methods to address the challenge of excessive prompt size when engineering new features. The technique they mention is

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, by employing techniques from ensemble methods~\cite{breiman2001random}, like feature bagging, we can mitigate the challenge of excessive prompt size.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the challenge that can be mitigated by employing techniques from ensemble methods, such as feature bagging, when using in-context learning to extract features from prompts is excessive prompt size.
target:  excessive prompt size.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the challenge that can be mitigated by employing techniques from ensemble methods, such as feature bagging, when using in-context learning to extract features from prompts is

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} structures the input prompt for engineering new features into the following two sub-tasks: (1) understanding the problem and inferring the relationship between features and targets; and (2) based on the knowledge from the previous step and few-shot examples, deriving decisive rules to distinguish classes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the first sub-task in the two-part input-prompt structure that \textsf{FeatLLM} uses for engineering new features, before it derives decisive rules from the few-shot examples, is understanding the problem and inferring the relationship between features and targets.
target:  understanding the problem and inferring the relationship between features and targets.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the first sub-task in the two-part input-prompt structure that \textsf{FeatLLM} uses for engineering new features, before it derives decisive rules from the few-shot examples, is

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} structures the input prompt for engineering new features into the following two sub-tasks: (1) understanding the problem and inferring the relationship between features and targets; and (2) based on the knowledge from the previous step and few-shot examples, deriving decisive rules to distinguish classes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," FeatLLM uses its second sub-task to derive, from the knowledge in the previous step and few-shot examples, decisive rules.
target:  decisive rules.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," FeatLLM uses its second sub-task to derive, from the knowledge in the previous step and few-shot examples,

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} structures the input prompt for engineering new features into the following two sub-tasks: (1) understanding the problem and inferring the relationship between features and targets; and (2) based on the knowledge from the previous step and few-shot examples, deriving decisive rules to distinguish classes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the decisive rules derived in \textsf{FeatLLM}'s second sub-task are intended to distinguish classes.
target:  distinguish classes.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the decisive rules derived in \textsf{FeatLLM}'s second sub-task are intended to

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This structured reasoning approach leads the LLMs to filter out uninformative features for rule extraction.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe the \textsf{FeatLLM} structured reasoning approach for feature engineering as leading the LLMs to filter out uninformative features.
target:  uninformative features.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe the \textsf{FeatLLM} structured reasoning approach for feature engineering as leading the LLMs to filter out

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This structured reasoning approach leads the LLMs to filter out uninformative features for rule extraction.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe a structured reasoning approach in FeatLLM that helps the LLMs filter out uninformative features for rule extraction.
target:  rule extraction.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe a structured reasoning approach in FeatLLM that helps the LLMs filter out uninformative features for

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The deduced rules are then applied to the data (parsed them as program code), and the data are transformed into a binary feature indicating whether or not the samples adheres to each rule.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the deduced rules are applied to the data and then transformed into a binary feature indicating whether the samples adhere to each rule by parsed them as program code.
target:  parsed them as program code.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the deduced rules are applied to the data and then transformed into a binary feature indicating whether the samples adhere to each rule by

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, a model with low complexity is fitted to estimate class probabilities from these new features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the binary features generated by applying the deduced rules to the data are used to fit a model that estimates class probabilities, specifically a model with low complexity.
target:  a model with low complexity.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the binary features generated by applying the deduced rules to the data are used to fit a model that estimates class probabilities, specifically

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, a model with low complexity is fitted to estimate class probabilities from these new features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after the data are transformed into binary features based on the deduced rules, the low-complexity model estimates from these new features class probabilities.
target:  class probabilities.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after the data are transformed into binary features based on the deduced rules, the low-complexity model estimates from these new features

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The robustness is further improved by employing an ensemble approach
, repeatedly generating features in conjunction with feature bagging.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the approach employed to further improve robustness is an ensemble approach.
target:  an ensemble approach.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the approach employed to further improve robustness is

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The robustness is further improved by employing an ensemble approach
, repeatedly generating features in conjunction with feature bagging.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the robustness is further improved by employing an ensemble approach that repeatedly generates features in conjunction with feature bagging.
target:  feature bagging.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the robustness is further improved by employing an ensemble approach that repeatedly generates features in conjunction with

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By appropriately adjusting the number of features and samples chosen in bagging, the challenge of excessive prompt size is mitigated.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", appropriately adjusting the number of features and samples chosen in bagging can mitigate the challenge of excessive prompt size.
target:  the challenge of excessive prompt size.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", appropriately adjusting the number of features and samples chosen in bagging can mitigate

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By appropriately adjusting the number of features and samples chosen in bagging, the challenge of excessive prompt size is mitigated.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ feature-bagging approach mitigates the challenge of excessive prompt size by using features and samples.
target:  features and samples.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ feature-bagging approach mitigates the challenge of excessive prompt size by using

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} is free from training constraints and yields low inference cost, rendering the application of the LLM feasible for various real-world problems.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the sentence describing \textsf{FeatLLM}'s low inference cost and feasibility for various real-world problems states that it is free from training constraints.
target:  training constraints.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the sentence describing \textsf{FeatLLM}'s low inference cost and feasibility for various real-world problems states that it is free from

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} is free from training constraints and yields low inference cost, rendering the application of the LLM feasible for various real-world problems.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} yields low inference cost.
target:  low inference cost.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} yields

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} on 13 different tabular datasets in low-shot regimes, showing its strong and robust performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} in low-shot regimes on 13 different tabular datasets.
target:  13 different tabular datasets.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} in low-shot regimes on

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} on 13 different tabular datasets in low-shot regimes, showing its strong and robust performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} across the 13 tabular datasets in low-shot regimes.
target:  low-shot regimes.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} across the 13 tabular datasets in

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We show that LLMs proficiently utilize both prior knowledge and the knowledge from the data, extracting high-quality features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when evaluating FeatLLM on low-shot tabular datasets, the authors say that LLMs proficiently utilize knowledge from the data in addition to prior knowledge.
target:  prior knowledge.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when evaluating FeatLLM on low-shot tabular datasets, the authors say that LLMs proficiently utilize knowledge from the data in addition to

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We show that LLMs proficiently utilize both prior knowledge and the knowledge from the data, extracting high-quality features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that large language models proficiently utilize prior knowledge along with the knowledge from the data.
target:  the knowledge from the data.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that large language models proficiently utilize prior knowledge along with

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We show that LLMs proficiently utilize both prior knowledge and the knowledge from the data, extracting high-quality features.
fact: The authors say that by proficiently utilizing both prior knowledge and the knowledge from the data, LLMs extract high-quality features.
target:  high-quality features.
probe: The authors say that by proficiently utilizing both prior knowledge and the knowledge from the data, LLMs extract

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Our framework outperforms contemporary few-shot learning baselines across various settings.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed framework outperforms, across various settings in the low-shot evaluation on 13 tabular datasets, contemporary few-shot learning baselines.
target:  contemporary few-shot learning baselines.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed framework outperforms, across various settings in the low-shot evaluation on 13 tabular datasets,

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Our framework outperforms contemporary few-shot learning baselines across various settings.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors report that their framework outperforms contemporary few-shot learning baselines in various settings.
target:  various settings.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors report that their framework outperforms contemporary few-shot learning baselines in

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The code is released via anonymized GitHub link at~\texttt{https://github.com/Sungwon-Han/FeatLLM}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the code for the FeatLLM framework is released via an anonymized GitHub link
target:  anonymized GitHub link
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the code for the FeatLLM framework is released via an

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The code is released via anonymized GitHub link at~\texttt{https://github.com/Sungwon-Han/FeatLLM}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the anonymized GitHub link given for the released code is \texttt{https://github.com/Sungwon-Han/FeatLLM}
target:  \texttt{https://github.com/Sungwon-Han/FeatLLM}
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the anonymized GitHub link given for the released code is

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The advancement of few-shot learning has enabled the extraction of generalizable representations from data, even with minimal labeling costs~\cite{chen2018closer}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the advancement of few-shot learning has enabled what to be extracted from data, even with minimal labeling costs, namely generalizable representations.
target:  generalizable representations.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the advancement of few-shot learning has enabled what to be extracted from data, even with minimal labeling costs, namely

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The advancement of few-shot learning has enabled the extraction of generalizable representations from data, even with minimal labeling costs~\cite{chen2018closer}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the advancement of few-shot learning enabled the extraction of generalizable representations from data even with minimal labeling costs.
target:  minimal labeling costs.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the advancement of few-shot learning enabled the extraction of generalizable representations from data even with

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Initially focusing on image data, few-shot learning has proven its strong generalizability across various data modalities including text, audio, and more recently, tabular data~\cite{majumder2022few,nam2023stunt,schick2021exploiting}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", few-shot learning initially focused on what kind of data before proving generalizable to other modalities such as text, audio, and tabular data: image data
target:  image data
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", few-shot learning initially focused on what kind of data before proving generalizable to other modalities such as text, audio, and tabular data:

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Initially focusing on image data, few-shot learning has proven its strong generalizability across various data modalities including text, audio, and more recently, tabular data~\cite{majumder2022few,nam2023stunt,schick2021exploiting}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after initially focusing on image data, few-shot learning has proven strong generalizability across text, audio, and more recently, tabular data.
target:  text, audio, and more recently, tabular data.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after initially focusing on image data, few-shot learning has proven strong generalizability across

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Learning from a small number of labeled samples presents the risk of learning spurious correlations~\cite{bartlett2021deep}.
fact: Learning from a small number of labeled samples presents the risk of learning spurious correlations.
target:  learning spurious correlations.
probe: Learning from a small number of labeled samples presents the risk of

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consequently, recent efforts have employed additional sources of information or introduced domain-specific prior knowledge to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent efforts have employed, alongside domain-specific prior knowledge and to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training, additional sources of information.
target:  additional sources of information.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent efforts have employed, alongside domain-specific prior knowledge and to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training,

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consequently, recent efforts have employed additional sources of information or introduced domain-specific prior knowledge to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training.
fact: Recent efforts have introduced prior knowledge to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training in few-shot tabular learning, namely domain-specific prior knowledge.
target:  domain-specific prior knowledge.
probe: Recent efforts have introduced prior knowledge to impart appropriate inductive biases for model training in few-shot tabular learning, namely

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For example, utilizing large quantities of more readily-available unlabeled datasets with judicious augmentation for semi-supervised learning~\cite{ucar2021subtab,yoon2020vime}, or seeking good model initialization through task-agnostic unsupervised pre-training~\cite{somepalli2021saint}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the context of using large quantities of unlabeled datasets for semi-supervised learning or obtaining good model initialization for few-shot tabular learning, good model initialization is sought through task-agnostic unsupervised pre-training.
target:  task-agnostic unsupervised pre-training.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the context of using large quantities of unlabeled datasets for semi-supervised learning or obtaining good model initialization for few-shot tabular learning, good model initialization is sought through

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Such unsupervised objectives can involve masking or corrupting part of the data and then using a reconstruction objective~\cite{arik2021tabnet,majmundar2022met} or employing data augmentation to apply contrastive learning objectives~\cite{bahri2022scarf,chen2020simple}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of unsupervised objectives for tabular data, besides masking or corrupting part of the data and using a reconstruction objective, data augmentation can be used to apply contrastive learning objectives.
target:  contrastive learning objectives.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of unsupervised objectives for tabular data, besides masking or corrupting part of the data and using a reconstruction objective, data augmentation can be used to apply

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, the heterogeneous nature of tabular data makes it challenging to find universally applicable augmentations, and these strategies have not been notably effective in few-shot settings~\cite{nam2023stunt}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," what makes it challenging to find universally applicable augmentations for tabular data is the heterogeneous nature of tabular data.
target:  the heterogeneous nature of tabular data.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," what makes it challenging to find universally applicable augmentations for tabular data is

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, the heterogeneous nature of tabular data makes it challenging to find universally applicable augmentations, and these strategies have not been notably effective in few-shot settings~\cite{nam2023stunt}.
fact: The authors remark that although augmentation-based unsupervised objectives have been explored for tabular data, these strategies have not been notably effective in few-shot settings.
target:  few-shot settings.
probe: The authors remark that although augmentation-based unsupervised objectives have been explored for tabular data, these strategies have not been notably effective in

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Recent work have proposed training models on a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task and then applying transfer learning to the target task~\cite{zhang2023generative,levin2022transfer,zhu2023xtab}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent work has proposed training models on a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task.
target:  a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent work has proposed training models on

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Recent work have proposed training models on a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task and then applying transfer learning to the target task~\cite{zhang2023generative,levin2022transfer,zhu2023xtab}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after models are trained on a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task, the approach applied to the target task is transfer learning.
target:  transfer learning.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after models are trained on a broad range of tabular datasets beyond those related to the target task, the approach applied to the target task is

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For instance, TransTab~\cite{wang2022transtab} trains transformer-based models learning of semantic relationships between columns through column names, not just table values.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TransTab trains transformer-based models to learn semantic relationships through names rather than just table values: columns
target:  columns
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TransTab trains transformer-based models to learn semantic relationships through names rather than just table values:

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For instance, TransTab~\cite{wang2022transtab} trains transformer-based models learning of semantic relationships between columns through column names, not just table values.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TransTab’s transformer-based models learn semantic relationships between columns, rather than relying only on table values, through column names.
target:  column names.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TransTab’s transformer-based models learn semantic relationships between columns, rather than relying only on table values, through

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The knowledge extracted from various tables and columns has facilitated zero-shot or few-shot inference for new tabular tasks.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", zero-shot or few-shot inference for new tabular tasks has been facilitated by knowledge extracted from various tables and columns.
target:  knowledge extracted from various tables and columns.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", zero-shot or few-shot inference for new tabular tasks has been facilitated by

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The knowledge extracted from various tables and columns has facilitated zero-shot or few-shot inference for new tabular tasks.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the knowledge extracted from various tables and columns has facilitated, for new tabular tasks, zero-shot or few-shot inference
target:  zero-shot or few-shot inference
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the knowledge extracted from various tables and columns has facilitated, for new tabular tasks,

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Meanwhile, TabPFN~\cite{hollmann2022tabpfn} mixes different types of distributions to create synthetic data for pre-training a Bayesian neural network.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabPFN creates synthetic data for pre-training a Bayesian neural network by mixing different types of distributions.
target:  different types of distributions.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabPFN creates synthetic data for pre-training a Bayesian neural network by mixing

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Meanwhile, TabPFN~\cite{hollmann2022tabpfn} mixes different types of distributions to create synthetic data for pre-training a Bayesian neural network.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabPFN mixes different types of distributions to create synthetic data that is used to pre-train a Bayesian neural network.
target:  a Bayesian neural network.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabPFN mixes different types of distributions to create synthetic data that is used to pre-train

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After pre-training, inference is performed by inputting both training and test samples of the target task without further training.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after pre-training TabPFN, the samples of the target task that are input for inference without further training are both training and test samples.
target:  both training and test samples.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after pre-training TabPFN, the samples of the target task that are input for inference without further training are

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After pre-training, inference is performed by inputting both training and test samples of the target task without further training.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of TabPFN after pre-training, inference on the target task is performed by inputting both training and test samples without further training.
target:  further training.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of TabPFN after pre-training, inference on the target task is performed by inputting both training and test samples without

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of traditional tree-based approaches and is proved to be beneficial in few-shot settings.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of, in the described few-shot setting, traditional tree-based approaches
target:  traditional tree-based approaches
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of, in the described few-shot setting,

----- Row 103 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of traditional tree-based approaches and is proved to be beneficial in few-shot settings.
fact: According to the paper, prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of traditional tree-based approaches and was proved to be beneficial in few-shot settings.
target:  few-shot settings.
probe: According to the paper, prior knowledge gained from various datasets helped surpass the performance of traditional tree-based approaches and was proved to be beneficial in

----- Row 104 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Another promising approach to leverage prior knowledge is the incorporation of large language models (LLMs)~\cite{anil2023palm,openai2023gpt4}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," another promising approach to leverage prior knowledge is described as the incorporation of large language models (LLMs).
target:  the incorporation of large language models (LLMs).
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," another promising approach to leverage prior knowledge is described as

----- Row 105 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: LLMs, trained on extensive and diverse text corpora, have demonstrated the ability to generalize to unseen tasks, proving their utility across various domains~\cite{brown2020language}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the kind of tasks that LLMs, trained on extensive and diverse text corpora, have demonstrated the ability to generalize to are unseen tasks.
target:  unseen tasks.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the kind of tasks that LLMs, trained on extensive and diverse text corpora, have demonstrated the ability to generalize to are

----- Row 106 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: LLMs, trained on extensive and diverse text corpora, have demonstrated the ability to generalize to unseen tasks, proving their utility across various domains~\cite{brown2020language}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", LLMs trained on extensive and diverse text corpora have demonstrated the ability to generalize to unseen tasks, proving their utility across various domains.
target:  various domains.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", LLMs trained on extensive and diverse text corpora have demonstrated the ability to generalize to unseen tasks, proving their utility across

----- Row 107 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Recent studies have attempted to harness the rich prior knowledge encapsulated by LLMs for tabular learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent studies have attempted to leverage for tabular learning the rich prior knowledge encapsulated by LLMs.
target:  the rich prior knowledge encapsulated by LLMs.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", recent studies have attempted to leverage for tabular learning

----- Row 109 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They typically propose serializing tabular data into text and feeding them into the input prompts of LLMs~\cite{dinh2022lift,hegselmann2023tabllm,wang2023anypredict}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", what recent studies typically propose doing with tabular data before feeding it into the input prompts of LLMs for tabular learning is serializing tabular data into text.
target:  serializing tabular data into text.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", what recent studies typically propose doing with tabular data before feeding it into the input prompts of LLMs for tabular learning is

----- Row 110 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: They typically propose serializing tabular data into text and feeding them into the input prompts of LLMs~\cite{dinh2022lift,hegselmann2023tabllm,wang2023anypredict}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after recent studies serialize tabular data into text, they feed the resulting text into the input prompts of LLMs
target:  the input prompts of LLMs
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after recent studies serialize tabular data into text, they feed the resulting text into

----- Row 111 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By including tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions in the input prompts, these can infer the relationships between tasks and features to perform inference.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the input prompts include tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions.
target:  tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the input prompts include

----- Row 112 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By including tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions in the input prompts, these can infer the relationships between tasks and features to perform inference.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by including tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions in the input prompts, these models can infer relationships between tasks and features.
target:  tasks and features.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", by including tabular data, feature descriptions, and task descriptions in the input prompts, these models can infer relationships between

----- Row 113 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Research has evolved to either specifically train models using parameter-efficient tuning techniques like LoRA~\cite{hu2021lora} or IA3~\cite{liu2022few}, or employ in-context learning by adding few-shot example demonstrations to the prompts without training~\cite{dinh2022lift,hegselmann2023tabllm,nam2023semi,slack2023tablet}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", one parameter-efficient tuning technique mentioned as one way to specifically train models for few-shot tabular learning is LoRA.
target:  LoRA.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", one parameter-efficient tuning technique mentioned as one way to specifically train models for few-shot tabular learning is

----- Row 114 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Research has evolved to either specifically train models using parameter-efficient tuning techniques like LoRA~\cite{hu2021lora} or IA3~\cite{liu2022few}, or employ in-context learning by adding few-shot example demonstrations to the prompts without training~\cite{dinh2022lift,hegselmann2023tabllm,nam2023semi,slack2023tablet}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the other parameter-efficient tuning technique mentioned alongside LoRA for specifically training models is IA3.
target:  IA3.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the other parameter-efficient tuning technique mentioned alongside LoRA for specifically training models is

----- Row 115 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Research has evolved to either specifically train models using parameter-efficient tuning techniques like LoRA~\cite{hu2021lora} or IA3~\cite{liu2022few}, or employ in-context learning by adding few-shot example demonstrations to the prompts without training~\cite{dinh2022lift,hegselmann2023tabllm,nam2023semi,slack2023tablet}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in-context learning is used in the few-shot tabular learning setting without training the model by adding few-shot example demonstrations to the prompts.
target:  adding few-shot example demonstrations to the prompts.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in-context learning is used in the few-shot tabular learning setting without training the model by

----- Row 116 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite the effectiveness of the aforementioned methods in improving few-shot tabular learning, the requirement to always pass inference through the LLM poses challenges for application in industrial domains.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors discuss prior methods for improving few-shot tabular learning, including parameter-efficient tuning and in-context learning. The requirement of these methods that poses challenges for application in industrial domains is to always pass inference through the LLM
target:  always pass inference through the LLM
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors discuss prior methods for improving few-shot tabular learning, including parameter-efficient tuning and in-context learning. The requirement of these methods that poses challenges for application in industrial domains is to

----- Row 117 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Despite the effectiveness of the aforementioned methods in improving few-shot tabular learning, the requirement to always pass inference through the LLM poses challenges for application in industrial domains.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", despite the effectiveness of prior methods for improving few-shot tabular learning, the requirement to always pass inference through the LLM poses challenges for application in industrial domains.
target:  industrial domains.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", despite the effectiveness of prior methods for improving few-shot tabular learning, the requirement to always pass inference through the LLM poses challenges for application in

----- Row 118 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Instead, it targets the LLM to directly infer the conditions or rules associated with each class.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the approach targets the LLM to directly infer for each class the conditions or rules.
target:  the conditions or rules.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the approach targets the LLM to directly infer for each class

----- Row 119 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Instead, it targets the LLM to directly infer the conditions or rules associated with each class.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the LLM directly infers the conditions or rules associated with each class.
target:  each class.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the LLM directly infers the conditions or rules associated with

----- Row 120 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} parses the generated rules into the program code to create new features, enabling predictions without the need to pass through the LLM and leveraging in-context learning to extract rules utilizing prior knowledge and information from few-shot samples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM parses the generated rules into the form needed to create new features and make predictions without passing through the LLM, namely the program code.
target:  the program code.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM parses the generated rules into the form needed to create new features and make predictions without passing through the LLM, namely

----- Row 121 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} parses the generated rules into the program code to create new features, enabling predictions without the need to pass through the LLM and leveraging in-context learning to extract rules utilizing prior knowledge and information from few-shot samples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} parses generated rules into program code to create new features for prediction, allowing predictions to be made without needing to pass through the LLM.
target:  pass through the LLM.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} parses generated rules into program code to create new features for prediction, allowing predictions to be made without needing to

----- Row 122 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} parses the generated rules into the program code to create new features, enabling predictions without the need to pass through the LLM and leveraging in-context learning to extract rules utilizing prior knowledge and information from few-shot samples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} leverages prior knowledge and information from few-shot samples to extract rules using in-context learning.
target:  in-context learning.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} leverages prior knowledge and information from few-shot samples to extract rules using

----- Row 124 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The extracted rules are parsed through an LLM, and then used to create new binary features of the given sample indicating whether or not each rule is satisfied.
fact: In FeatLLM, after the extracted rules are parsed through an LLM, the indicators for whether each rule is satisfied are represented as new binary features.
target:  new binary features.
probe: In FeatLLM, after the extracted rules are parsed through an LLM, the indicators for whether each rule is satisfied are represented as

----- Row 125 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The set of new binary features are input to a dot product operation with non-negative trainable weights, to estimate the likelihood of each class.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the newly created binary features, together with non-negative trainable weights, are used to estimate the likelihood of each class via the dot product operation.
target:  dot product operation.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the newly created binary features, together with non-negative trainable weights, are used to estimate the likelihood of each class via the

----- Row 126 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The set of new binary features are input to a dot product operation with non-negative trainable weights, to estimate the likelihood of each class.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the newly created binary features are fed into a dot product to estimate the likelihood of each class using non-negative trainable weights.
target:  non-negative trainable weights.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the newly created binary features are fed into a dot product to estimate the likelihood of each class using

----- Row 127 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Let's consider a tabular dataset with $N$ labeled samples $\mathcal{D} = \{(\mathbf{x}^i, \mathbf{y}^i)\}_{i=1}^{N}$.
fact: In the problem formulation of the paper *"Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"*, the tabular dataset contains $N$.
target:  $N$.
probe: In the problem formulation of the paper *"Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"*, the tabular dataset contains

----- Row 128 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Let's consider a tabular dataset with $N$ labeled samples $\mathcal{D} = \{(\mathbf{x}^i, \mathbf{y}^i)\}_{i=1}^{N}$.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the notation used for the tabular dataset of $N$ labeled samples is $\mathcal{D}$.
target:  $\mathcal{D}$.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the notation used for the tabular dataset of $N$ labeled samples is

----- Row 129 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The dataset $\mathcal{D}$ consists of $d$ input features (i.e., each $\mathbf{x}^i$ is a $d$-dimensional vector), and comes with natural language feature names, denoted by $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$, along with their definitions provided separately.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the tabular dataset formulation with $d$ input features, the natural language feature names are denoted by $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$.
target:  $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the tabular dataset formulation with $d$ input features, the natural language feature names are denoted by

----- Row 130 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The dataset $\mathcal{D}$ consists of $d$ input features (i.e., each $\mathbf{x}^i$ is a $d$-dimensional vector), and comes with natural language feature names, denoted by $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$, along with their definitions provided separately.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the problem formulation for a tabular dataset $\mathcal{D} = \{(\mathbf{x}^i, \mathbf{y}^i)\}_{i=1}^{N}$, each input $\mathbf{x}^i$ is described as a $d$-dimensional vector.
target:  $d$-dimensional vector.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the problem formulation for a tabular dataset $\mathcal{D} = \{(\mathbf{x}^i, \mathbf{y}^i)\}_{i=1}^{N}$, each input $\mathbf{x}^i$ is described as a

----- Row 131 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The dataset $\mathcal{D}$ consists of $d$ input features (i.e., each $\mathbf{x}^i$ is a $d$-dimensional vector), and comes with natural language feature names, denoted by $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$, along with their definitions provided separately.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", besides the natural language feature names $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$ associated with the $d$ input features of the tabular dataset $\mathcal{D}$, the features are also provided separately with their definitions.
target:  their definitions.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", besides the natural language feature names $F = \{f_j\}_{j=1}^{d}$ associated with the $d$ input features of the tabular dataset $\mathcal{D}$, the features are also provided separately with

----- Row 132 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Assuming the classification setup, the label $\mathbf{y}^i$ is defined as one of the predefined set of classes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", under the classification setup described in the problem formulation, the label $\mathbf{y}^i$ is defined as the predefined set of classes.
target:  the predefined set of classes.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", under the classification setup described in the problem formulation, the label $\mathbf{y}^i$ is defined as

----- Row 133 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For the $k$-shot learning experiments, only $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples are randomly sampled to train the model.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the $k$-shot learning experiments, the model is trained by randomly sampling $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples.
target:  $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the $k$-shot learning experiments, the model is trained by randomly sampling

----- Row 134 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For the $k$-shot learning experiments, only $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples are randomly sampled to train the model.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the $k$-shot learning experiments in which only $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples are randomly sampled, those sampled labeled examples are used to train the model.
target:  train the model.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", for the $k$-shot learning experiments in which only $k$ ($<N$) labeled samples are randomly sampled, those sampled labeled examples are used to

----- Row 135 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To enable the LLM to extract rules based on a more accurate reasoning path, we guide the problem-solving process to mimic how an expert human might approach a tabular learning task.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors guide the problem-solving process to mimic how an expert human might approach a tabular learning task in order to help the LLM extract rules, the LLM is guided to use a more accurate reasoning path.
target:  a more accurate reasoning path.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors guide the problem-solving process to mimic how an expert human might approach a tabular learning task in order to help the LLM extract rules, the LLM is guided to use

----- Row 136 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To enable the LLM to extract rules based on a more accurate reasoning path, we guide the problem-solving process to mimic how an expert human might approach a tabular learning task.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to enable the LLM to extract rules based on a more accurate reasoning path, the authors guide the problem-solving process to mimic how a tabular learning task might be approached by an expert human.
target:  an expert human.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to enable the LLM to extract rules based on a more accurate reasoning path, the authors guide the problem-solving process to mimic how a tabular learning task might be approached by

----- Row 137 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It includes a description of the task to be solved with label information, descriptions of features, and example demonstrations.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the basic information description includes the task to be solved, descriptions of features, example demonstrations, and label information.
target:  label information.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the basic information description includes the task to be solved, descriptions of features, example demonstrations, and

----- Row 138 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It includes a description of the task to be solved with label information, descriptions of features, and example demonstrations.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the basic information description includes the description of the task to be solved with label information and the descriptions of features, as well as example demonstrations.
target:  example demonstrations.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the basic information description includes the description of the task to be solved with label information and the descriptions of features, as well as

----- Row 140 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: As example demonstrations, few training samples are serialized into text, along with their ground-truth labels.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the example demonstrations along with the few training samples that are serialized into text include their ground-truth labels.
target:  their ground-truth labels.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the example demonstrations along with the few training samples that are serialized into text include

----- Row 141 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Serialization follows the format used in previous studies~\cite{dinh2022lift,hegselmann2023tabllm}:
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors serialize the few training samples into text for the example demonstrations using the format used in previous studies.
target:  the format used in previous studies.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors serialize the few training samples into text for the example demonstrations using

----- Row 142 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \begin{align}
&\text{Serialize}(\mathbf{x}^i,\mathbf{y}^i, F) = \nonumber \\ 
&``\ f_1\ \text{is}\ \mathbf{x}^i_1.\ ... \ f_d\  \text{is}\  \mathbf{x}^i_d.\ \ \text{Answer:}\  \mathbf{y}^i\ ”
\end{align}
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the serialization format used for example demonstrations, the text used to introduce the ground-truth label after the serialized feature values is "Answer:".
target:  "Answer:".
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the serialization format used for example demonstrations, the text used to introduce the ground-truth label after the serialized feature values is

----- Row 143 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \begin{align}
&\text{Serialize}(\mathbf{x}^i,\mathbf{y}^i, F) = \nonumber \\ 
&``\ f_1\ \text{is}\ \mathbf{x}^i_1.\ ... \ f_d\  \text{is}\  \mathbf{x}^i_d.\ \ \text{Answer:}\  \mathbf{y}^i\ ”
\end{align}
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the function denoting the serialization of $(\mathbf{x}^i,\mathbf{y}^i, F)$ into the text format where each feature is written as "$f_1$ is $\mathbf{x}^i_1$.\ \ldots\ $f_d$ is $\mathbf{x}^i_d$.\ \text{Answer:}\ \mathbf{y}^i$" is \text{Serialize}(\mathbf{x}^i,\mathbf{y}^i, F)
target:  \text{Serialize}(\mathbf{x}^i,\mathbf{y}^i, F)
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the function denoting the serialization of $(\mathbf{x}^i,\mathbf{y}^i, F)$ into the text format where each feature is written as "$f_1$ is $\mathbf{x}^i_1$.\ \ldots\ $f_d$ is $\mathbf{x}^i_d$.\ \text{Answer:}\ \mathbf{y}^i$" is

----- Row 144 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The reasoning instruction begins with an introductory sentence similar to the chain-of-thought approach~\cite{wei2022chain}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the introductory sentence in the reasoning instruction is described as being similar to the chain-of-thought approach.
target:  the chain-of-thought approach.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the introductory sentence in the reasoning instruction is described as being similar to

----- Row 145 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the first step, the LLM is encouraged to infer the causal relationship or tendency between features and the task description.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," in the first step of the reasoning instruction, the LLM is encouraged to infer from the features and the task description the causal relationship or tendency.
target:  the causal relationship or tendency.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," in the first step of the reasoning instruction, the LLM is encouraged to infer from the features and the task description

----- Row 146 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is done without referring to example demonstrations, relying instead on general knowledge or common sense, allowing the LLM to fully extract prior knowledge about the problem.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM is encouraged in the first step of the two-step reasoning process to infer the causal relationship or tendency between features and the task description, what it relies on instead of referring to example demonstrations is general knowledge or common sense.
target:  general knowledge or common sense.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM is encouraged in the first step of the two-step reasoning process to infer the causal relationship or tendency between features and the task description, what it relies on instead of referring to example demonstrations is

----- Row 148 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the second step, the LLM uses example demonstrations and the information from the first step to deduce rules for each class.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the two-step reasoning process, to deduce rules for each class the LLM uses the information from the first step together with example demonstrations.
target:  example demonstrations.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the two-step reasoning process, to deduce rules for each class the LLM uses the information from the first step together with

----- Row 149 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the second step, the LLM uses example demonstrations and the information from the first step to deduce rules for each class.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the second step of the two-step reasoning process, the LLM uses example demonstrations and the information from the first step to deduce for each class rules.
target:  rules.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the second step of the two-step reasoning process, the LLM uses example demonstrations and the information from the first step to deduce for each class

----- Row 150 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This two-step reasoning process prevents the model from identifying spurious correlations in irrelevant columns and can assist in focusing on more significant features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the described two-step reasoning process for extracting rules from class labels prevents the model from identifying spurious correlations
target:  spurious correlations
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the described two-step reasoning process for extracting rules from class labels prevents the model from identifying

----- Row 151 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This two-step reasoning process prevents the model from identifying spurious correlations in irrelevant columns and can assist in focusing on more significant features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the described two-step reasoning process helps the model beyond avoiding spurious correlations in irrelevant columns by assisting it in focusing on more significant features.
target:  more significant features.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the described two-step reasoning process helps the model beyond avoiding spurious correlations in irrelevant columns by assisting it in focusing on

----- Row 152 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additionally, when formulating rules, we let the LLM refer to the type of each feature in the basic information description part to avoid type mismatches in rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when formulating rules, the LLM refers to the basic information description to avoid type mismatches by checking the type of each feature.
target:  the type of each feature.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when formulating rules, the LLM refers to the basic information description to avoid type mismatches by checking

----- Row 153 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additionally, when formulating rules, we let the LLM refer to the type of each feature in the basic information description part to avoid type mismatches in rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors let the LLM refer to the type of each feature in the basic information description part when formulating rules in order to avoid type mismatches in rules
target:  to avoid type mismatches in rules
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors let the LLM refer to the type of each feature in the basic information description part when formulating rules in order

----- Row 154 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The prompt includes the guidelines on the required format for responses for each answer class (i.e., format for the response) and the structure each rule should follow (i.e., format for the rule).
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the prompt specifies guidelines for each answer class in the format for the response.
target:  format for the response.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the prompt specifies guidelines for each answer class in the

----- Row 155 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The prompt includes the guidelines on the required format for responses for each answer class (i.e., format for the response) and the structure each rule should follow (i.e., format for the rule).
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the prompt refers to the guidelines describing how each rule should be written as the format for the rule.
target:  format for the rule.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the prompt refers to the guidelines describing how each rule should be written as the

----- Row 156 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These instructions allow the LLM to select the appropriate format based on the feature type.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe specific instructions in the prompt that guide the LLM on how to structure its responses. Based on the feature type, these instructions allow the LLM to select the appropriate format.
target:  the appropriate format.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe specific instructions in the prompt that guide the LLM on how to structure its responses. Based on the feature type, these instructions allow the LLM to select

----- Row 157 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These instructions allow the LLM to select the appropriate format based on the feature type.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe instructions that guide the LLM on how to structure its responses. These instructions allow the LLM to select the appropriate format based on the feature type
target:  the feature type
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors describe instructions that guide the LLM on how to structure its responses. These instructions allow the LLM to select the appropriate format based on

----- Row 158 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Without additional guidance, the LLM can combine multiple rules using logical operators like AND or OR.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the prompt includes guidelines on the required response format for each answer class and the structure each rule should follow, the LLM can, without additional guidance, combine rules using logical operators like AND or OR into multiple rules.
target:  multiple rules.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the prompt includes guidelines on the required response format for each answer class and the structure each rule should follow, the LLM can, without additional guidance, combine rules using logical operators like AND or OR into

----- Row 159 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Without additional guidance, the LLM can combine multiple rules using logical operators like AND or OR.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when discussing the prompt guidance for the required response format and rule structure, the logical operators mentioned as examples of how the LLM can combine multiple rules without additional guidance are AND or OR.
target:  AND or OR.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when discussing the prompt guidance for the required response format and rule structure, the logical operators mentioned as examples of how the LLM can combine multiple rules without additional guidance are

----- Row 160 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These features are created for each class, indicating whether the sample satisfies the rules associated with that class (i.e., either '0' or '1').
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", binary features are created for each entity, indicating whether a sample satisfies the rules associated with that class.
target:  class.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", binary features are created for each entity, indicating whether a sample satisfies the rules associated with that

----- Row 161 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These features are created for each class, indicating whether the sample satisfies the rules associated with that class (i.e., either '0' or '1').
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the new binary features created for each class indicate whether the sample satisfies the rules associated with that class.
target:  whether the sample satisfies the rules associated with that class.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the new binary features created for each class indicate

----- Row 162 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, since the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language, designing a parsing strategy is required for automatic feature generation.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", designing a parsing strategy is required for automatic feature generation from the rules produced by the LLM because the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language.
target:  the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", designing a parsing strategy is required for automatic feature generation from the rules produced by the LLM because

----- Row 163 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, since the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language, designing a parsing strategy is required for automatic feature generation.
fact: Because the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language, automatic feature generation requires designing a parsing strategy.
target:  designing a parsing strategy.
probe: Because the rules generated by the LLM are based on natural language, automatic feature generation requires

----- Row 164 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even though we constrain formatting of responses and rules during rule generation for easier parsing, the LLM's output can include noisy syntactic changes~\cite{kovavc2023large}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors constrain the formatting of responses and rules during rule generation, even though the LLM's output can include noisy syntactic changes, because it enables easier parsing.
target:  easier parsing.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors constrain the formatting of responses and rules during rule generation, even though the LLM's output can include noisy syntactic changes, because it enables

----- Row 165 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Even though we constrain formatting of responses and rules during rule generation for easier parsing, the LLM's output can include noisy syntactic changes~\cite{kovavc2023large}.
fact: Even when the authors constrain the formatting of responses and rules during rule generation to make parsing easier, the LLM's output can still include noisy syntactic changes.
target:  noisy syntactic changes.
probe: Even when the authors constrain the formatting of responses and rules during rule generation to make parsing easier, the LLM's output can still include

----- Row 166 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For instance, the LLM might alter expressions, like substituting ``$>$” or ``$<$” with phrases like ``greater than" or ``less than."
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM introduces noisy syntactic changes during rule generation, the comparison symbols it might replace are ``$>$'' or ``$<$''.
target:  ``$>$'' or ``$<$''.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM introduces noisy syntactic changes during rule generation, the comparison symbols it might replace are

----- Row 167 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For instance, the LLM might alter expressions, like substituting ``$>$” or ``$<$” with phrases like ``greater than" or ``less than."
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM alters expressions in generated rules during parsing, it might substitute the symbol "$>$" with greater than.
target:  greater than.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the LLM alters expressions in generated rules during parsing, it might substitute the symbol "$>$" with

----- Row 168 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To address the challenges of parsing noisy text, instead of building complex program code, we leverage the LLM itself.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors address the challenges of parsing noisy text instead of building complex program code by leveraging the LLM itself.
target:  the LLM itself.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors address the challenges of parsing noisy text instead of building complex program code by leveraging

----- Row 169 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To address the challenges of parsing noisy text, instead of building complex program code, we leverage the LLM itself.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to address the challenges of parsing noisy text during rule generation, the authors say they leverage the LLM itself instead of building complex program code.
target:  complex program code.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to address the challenges of parsing noisy text during rule generation, the authors say they leverage the LLM itself instead of building

----- Row 170 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The LLM is good at understanding the semantic meaning despite syntactic changes in text, and it has the ability to generate a simple code with instructions (given it's trained on code data corpus).
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors use the LLM to help parse noisy text, it is good at understanding, despite syntactic changes in the text, the semantic meaning.
target:  the semantic meaning.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors use the LLM to help parse noisy text, it is good at understanding, despite syntactic changes in the text,

----- Row 171 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The LLM is good at understanding the semantic meaning despite syntactic changes in text, and it has the ability to generate a simple code with instructions (given it's trained on code data corpus).
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", because it is trained on a code data corpus, the LLM can generate with instructions a simple code.
target:  a simple code.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", because it is trained on a code data corpus, the LLM can generate with instructions

----- Row 172 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To leverage these, we include the function name, input and output descriptions, and inferred rules in the prompt, then input them into the LLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors leverage the LLM to handle noisy text parsing, they include in the prompt along with the function name and the input and output descriptions inferred rules.
target:  inferred rules.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the authors leverage the LLM to handle noisy text parsing, they include in the prompt along with the function name and the input and output descriptions

----- Row 173 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To leverage these, we include the function name, input and output descriptions, and inferred rules in the prompt, then input them into the LLM.
fact: According to the paper, after including the function name, input and output descriptions, and inferred rules in the prompt for parsing noisy text, the prompt is then input into the LLM.
target:  the LLM.
probe: According to the paper, after including the function name, input and output descriptions, and inferred rules in the prompt for parsing noisy text, the prompt is then input into

----- Row 174 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The generated code is executed using Python’s \texttt{exec()} function to perform data conversion.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the Python function used to execute the generated code to perform data conversion is \texttt{exec()}.
target:  \texttt{exec()}.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the Python function used to execute the generated code to perform data conversion is

----- Row 175 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The generated code is executed using Python’s \texttt{exec()} function to perform data conversion.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the generated code executed with Python’s `exec()` function is used to perform data conversion.
target:  data conversion.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the generated code executed with Python’s `exec()` function is used to perform

----- Row 176 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given new binary features from rules for each class, a simple method to measure the class likelihood of the sample is to count how many rules of each class it satisfies (i.e., the sum of the binary feature per class).
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the simple method the authors use to measure the class likelihood of a sample when given new binary features from rules for each class is count how many rules of each class it satisfies
target:  count how many rules of each class it satisfies
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the simple method the authors use to measure the class likelihood of a sample when given new binary features from rules for each class is

----- Row 177 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given new binary features from rules for each class, a simple method to measure the class likelihood of the sample is to count how many rules of each class it satisfies (i.e., the sum of the binary feature per class).
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when inferring class likelihood from new binary features generated from rules for each class, the quantity counted for each class to measure the likelihood of a sample is the sum of the binary feature per class.
target:  the sum of the binary feature per class.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when inferring class likelihood from new binary features generated from rules for each class, the quantity counted for each class to measure the likelihood of a sample is

----- Row 178 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, not all rules and features carry the same importance, necessitating learning their significance from training samples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the section on inferring class likelihood from generated binary rules and features, this must be learned from training samples rather than by simply counting how many rules of each class a sample satisfies because not all rules and features carry the same importance
target:  not all rules and features carry the same importance
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the section on inferring class likelihood from generated binary rules and features, this must be learned from training samples rather than by simply counting how many rules of each class a sample satisfies because

----- Row 179 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, not all rules and features carry the same importance, necessitating learning their significance from training samples.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors aim to learn from training samples that not all rules and features should be weighted equally by learning their significance.
target:  their significance.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors aim to learn from training samples that not all rules and features should be weighted equally by learning

----- Row 181 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We aim to learn this importance using a conventional machine learning (ML) model, applied to each class's binary feature.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors describe learning the importance of rules and features for each class by applying a conventional machine learning model to each class's binary feature.
target:  each class's binary feature.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors describe learning the importance of rules and features for each class by applying a conventional machine learning model to

----- Row 182 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Let us denote the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ as $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$, where $R$ is the number of rules per each class and $c$ is the number of classes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the notation used for the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ is $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$.
target:  $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the notation used for the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ is

----- Row 183 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Let us denote the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ as $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$, where $R$ is the number of rules per each class and $c$ is the number of classes.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the definition of the generated binary feature $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$ for sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ and class $k$, $R$ denotes the number of rules per each class
target:  the number of rules per each class
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the definition of the generated binary feature $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$ for sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ and class $k$, $R$ denotes

----- Row 184 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Let us denote the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ as $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$, where $R$ is the number of rules per each class and $c$ is the number of classes.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the notation where the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ is denoted as $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$, $c$ represents the number of classes.
target:  the number of classes.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the notation where the generated binary feature from sample $\mathbf{x}^i$ for class $k$ is denoted as $\mathbf{z}_k^i \in \{0, 1\}^R$, $c$ represents

----- Row 185 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Here, $\mathbf{w}_k$ represent the trainable weight in the linear model and they signify the importance of each feature.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the linear model used to compute the class logits $\text{logit}_k^i = \max(\mathbf{w}_k, 0) \cdot \mathbf{z}_k^i$ for each class, $\mathbf{w}_k$ represents the trainable weight.
target:  the trainable weight.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the linear model used to compute the class logits $\text{logit}_k^i = \max(\mathbf{w}_k, 0) \cdot \mathbf{z}_k^i$ for each class, $\mathbf{w}_k$ represents

----- Row 186 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Here, $\mathbf{w}_k$ represent the trainable weight in the linear model and they signify the importance of each feature.
fact: In the linear model of the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", $\\mathbf{w}_k$ signify the importance of each feature.
target:  the importance of each feature.
probe: In the linear model of the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", $\\mathbf{w}_k$ signify

----- Row 187 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By projecting these weights into a positive subspace, we can ensure that the features generated by the LLM do not reduce the likelihood of a class during learning.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that the trainable weights in the linear model are projected into a subspace so that features generated by the LLM do not reduce the likelihood of a class during learning, namely a positive subspace.
target:  a positive subspace.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that the trainable weights in the linear model are projected into a subspace so that features generated by the LLM do not reduce the likelihood of a class during learning, namely

----- Row 188 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: By projecting these weights into a positive subspace, we can ensure that the features generated by the LLM do not reduce the likelihood of a class during learning.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors say that when the trainable weights are projected into a positive subspace, the LLM-generated features do not reduce during learning and instead increase the likelihood of a class.
target:  the likelihood of a class.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors say that when the trainable weights are projected into a positive subspace, the LLM-generated features do not reduce during learning and instead increase

----- Row 189 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We optimize the cross-entropy loss to learn the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ using a few-shot training samples.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the loss optimized to learn the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ using the few-shot training samples is cross-entropy loss.
target:  cross-entropy loss.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the loss optimized to learn the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ using the few-shot training samples is

----- Row 190 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We optimize the cross-entropy loss to learn the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ using a few-shot training samples.
fact: When optimizing the cross-entropy loss, the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ is learned using a few-shot training samples.
target:  a few-shot training samples.
probe: When optimizing the cross-entropy loss, the weight $\mathbf{w}_k$ is learned using

----- Row 191 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, we repeatedly execute the entire process to create multiple inference models to make the final prediction via ensemble.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors create multiple inference models and make the final prediction via ensemble by having the models repeatedly execute the entire process
target:  repeatedly execute the entire process
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors create multiple inference models and make the final prediction via ensemble by having the models

----- Row 192 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Finally, we repeatedly execute the entire process to create multiple inference models to make the final prediction via ensemble.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors repeatedly execute the entire process to create multiple inference models in order to make the final prediction via ensemble
target:  make the final prediction via ensemble
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors repeatedly execute the entire process to create multiple inference models in order to

----- Row 193 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials, denoted as $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$, the prediction is made by averaging the probability for each class $\mathbf{p}^i$ computed with each weight $\mathbf{w}[t]$ as in Eq.~\ref{eq:infer_prob}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ensembling-with-bagging procedure, the notation used for the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials is $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$.
target:  $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ensembling-with-bagging procedure, the notation used for the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials is

----- Row 194 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Given the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials, denoted as $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$, the prediction is made by averaging the probability for each class $\mathbf{p}^i$ computed with each weight $\mathbf{w}[t]$ as in Eq.~\ref{eq:infer_prob}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ensembling-with-bagging procedure, the final prediction is made given the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials, denoted as $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$, by averaging the probability for each class $\mathbf{p}^i$
target:  averaging the probability for each class $\mathbf{p}^i$
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ensembling-with-bagging procedure, the final prediction is made given the collection of trained weights from $T$ trials, denoted as $\{\mathbf{w}[t]\}_{t=1}^T$, by

----- Row 195 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To introduce randomness in rule generation for ensemble, a sufficiently high temperature is set for LLM inference.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the quantity set to a sufficiently high value to introduce randomness in rule generation for the ensemble during LLM inference is temperature.
target:  temperature.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the quantity set to a sufficiently high value to introduce randomness in rule generation for the ensemble during LLM inference is

----- Row 196 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To introduce randomness in rule generation for ensemble, a sufficiently high temperature is set for LLM inference.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the process assigned a sufficiently high temperature to introduce randomness in rule generation for the ensemble is LLM inference.
target:  LLM inference.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the process assigned a sufficiently high temperature to introduce randomness in rule generation for the ensemble is

----- Row 197 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To utilize the diversity in prediction for more robust predictions, we adopt bagging to select a subset of features or instances for each trial, which gets particularly useful for larger number of training samples or features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors adopt the ensemble method bagging.
target:  bagging.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors adopt the ensemble method

----- Row 198 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To utilize the diversity in prediction for more robust predictions, we adopt bagging to select a subset of features or instances for each trial, which gets particularly useful for larger number of training samples or features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when bagging is used to obtain more robust predictions in the ensemble approach, the subset selected for each trial consists of features or instances.
target:  features or instances.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when bagging is used to obtain more robust predictions in the ensemble approach, the subset selected for each trial consists of

----- Row 199 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To utilize the diversity in prediction for more robust predictions, we adopt bagging to select a subset of features or instances for each trial, which gets particularly useful for larger number of training samples or features.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors state that bagging is particularly useful when there is a larger number of training samples or features
target:  training samples or features
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors state that bagging is particularly useful when there is a larger number of

----- Row 200 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, even if the LLM generates incorrect rules in some trials, the correct rules from other trials can compensate, enhancing the overall robustness of the framework.
fact: For the proposed ensemble approach, incorrect rules generated by the LLM in some trials can be compensated by the correct rules from other trials
target:  the correct rules from other trials
probe: For the proposed ensemble approach, incorrect rules generated by the LLM in some trials can be compensated by

----- Row 201 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, even if the LLM generates incorrect rules in some trials, the correct rules from other trials can compensate, enhancing the overall robustness of the framework.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed ensemble approach states that correct rules from other trials can compensate for incorrect rules generated by the LLM in some trials, enhancing the overall robustness of the framework
target:  the overall robustness of the framework
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the proposed ensemble approach states that correct rules from other trials can compensate for incorrect rules generated by the LLM in some trials, enhancing

----- Row 202 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This ties into the LLM's self-consistency~\cite{wang2022self}, as rules commonly inferred across multiple trials are more likely to be accurate.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the robustness gained from rules that are commonly inferred across multiple trials ties into the LLM’s self-consistency.
target:  self-consistency.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the robustness gained from rules that are commonly inferred across multiple trials ties into the LLM’s

----- Row 203 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This ties into the LLM's self-consistency~\cite{wang2022self}, as rules commonly inferred across multiple trials are more likely to be accurate.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ discussion of the LLM’s self-consistency characterizes rules that are commonly inferred across multiple trials as accurate.
target:  accurate.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ discussion of the LLM’s self-consistency characterizes rules that are commonly inferred across multiple trials as

----- Row 204 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When the tabular data exceed the allowable input prompt size, bagging helps reduce it, ensuring the model's robust performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the ensemble method used to address the LLM prompt-size limitation when tabular data exceed the allowable input size and to ensure robust performance is bagging.
target:  bagging.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the ensemble method used to address the LLM prompt-size limitation when tabular data exceed the allowable input size and to ensure robust performance is

----- Row 205 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: When the tabular data exceed the allowable input prompt size, bagging helps reduce it, ensuring the model's robust performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that when the tabular data exceed the allowable input prompt size, bagging helps reduce the prompt size, which ensures robust performance.
target:  robust performance.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors explain that when the tabular data exceed the allowable input prompt size, bagging helps reduce the prompt size, which ensures

----- Row 206 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While a single rule set might not capture the relationships of all features, the ensemble of various weak learners created across multiple trials can nullify the impact of incomplete feature/instance coverage in individual trials.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors state that when a single rule set may not capture relationships among all features, the impact of incomplete feature or instance coverage in individual trials can be nullified by the ensemble of various weak learners created across multiple trials.
target:  the ensemble of various weak learners created across multiple trials.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors state that when a single rule set may not capture relationships among all features, the impact of incomplete feature or instance coverage in individual trials can be nullified by

----- Row 208 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} over multiple tabular datasets, and conduct various analyses to investigate how our framework works.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the framework that the authors evaluate over multiple tabular datasets and analyze to investigate how it works is \textsf{FeatLLM}.
target:  \textsf{FeatLLM}.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the framework that the authors evaluate over multiple tabular datasets and analyze to investigate how it works is

----- Row 209 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We evaluate \textsf{FeatLLM} over multiple tabular datasets, and conduct various analyses to investigate how our framework works.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors conduct various analyses after evaluating \textsf{FeatLLM} over multiple tabular datasets to investigate how our framework works
target:  to investigate how our framework works
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors conduct various analyses after evaluating \textsf{FeatLLM} over multiple tabular datasets

----- Row 210 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Our experiment utilizes 13 datasets for binary or multi-class classification tasks: (1) Adult~\cite{asuncion2007uci} for predicting whether an individual earns over \$50,000 annually; (2) Bank~\cite{moro2014data} for predicting whether a customer will subscribe to a term deposit; (3) Blood~\cite{yeh2009knowledge} for predicting whether donors will return for subsequent donations; (4) Car~\cite{kadra2021well} for predicting the quality of a car; (5) Communities~\cite{misc_communities_and_crime_183} for predicting the crime rate in a specified region; (6) Credit-g~\cite{kadra2021well} for predicting whether an individual poses a good or bad credit risk; (7) Diabetes\footnote{\texttt{kaggle.com/datasets/uciml/pima-indians-diabetes-database}} for predicting the presence of diabetes in an individual; (8) Heart\footnote{\texttt{kaggle.com/datasets/fedesoriano/heart-failure-prediction}} for predicting the occurrence of coronary artery disease in an individual; and (9) Myocardial~\cite{misc_myocardial_infarction_complications_579} for predicting whether an individual suffers from chronic heart failure.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the experiment for binary or multi-class classification tasks uses a total of 13.
target:  13.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the experiment for binary or multi-class classification tasks uses a total of

----- Row 211 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Our experiment utilizes 13 datasets for binary or multi-class classification tasks: (1) Adult~\cite{asuncion2007uci} for predicting whether an individual earns over \$50,000 annually; (2) Bank~\cite{moro2014data} for predicting whether a customer will subscribe to a term deposit; (3) Blood~\cite{yeh2009knowledge} for predicting whether donors will return for subsequent donations; (4) Car~\cite{kadra2021well} for predicting the quality of a car; (5) Communities~\cite{misc_communities_and_crime_183} for predicting the crime rate in a specified region; (6) Credit-g~\cite{kadra2021well} for predicting whether an individual poses a good or bad credit risk; (7) Diabetes\footnote{\texttt{kaggle.com/datasets/uciml/pima-indians-diabetes-database}} for predicting the presence of diabetes in an individual; (8) Heart\footnote{\texttt{kaggle.com/datasets/fedesoriano/heart-failure-prediction}} for predicting the occurrence of coronary artery disease in an individual; and (9) Myocardial~\cite{misc_myocardial_infarction_complications_579} for predicting whether an individual suffers from chronic heart failure.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the dataset used for predicting whether a customer will subscribe to a term deposit is Bank.
target:  Bank.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the dataset used for predicting whether a customer will subscribe to a term deposit is

----- Row 212 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Our experiment utilizes 13 datasets for binary or multi-class classification tasks: (1) Adult~\cite{asuncion2007uci} for predicting whether an individual earns over \$50,000 annually; (2) Bank~\cite{moro2014data} for predicting whether a customer will subscribe to a term deposit; (3) Blood~\cite{yeh2009knowledge} for predicting whether donors will return for subsequent donations; (4) Car~\cite{kadra2021well} for predicting the quality of a car; (5) Communities~\cite{misc_communities_and_crime_183} for predicting the crime rate in a specified region; (6) Credit-g~\cite{kadra2021well} for predicting whether an individual poses a good or bad credit risk; (7) Diabetes\footnote{\texttt{kaggle.com/datasets/uciml/pima-indians-diabetes-database}} for predicting the presence of diabetes in an individual; (8) Heart\footnote{\texttt{kaggle.com/datasets/fedesoriano/heart-failure-prediction}} for predicting the occurrence of coronary artery disease in an individual; and (9) Myocardial~\cite{misc_myocardial_infarction_complications_579} for predicting whether an individual suffers from chronic heart failure.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors list 13 datasets used for binary or multi-class classification tasks. For the Myocardial dataset, it is used to predict chronic heart failure.
target:  chronic heart failure.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors list 13 datasets used for binary or multi-class classification tasks. For the Myocardial dataset, it is used to predict

----- Row 213 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also include more recent datasets and synthetic datasets which have been less frequently discussed and were not included in the pre-training process of LLMs: (10) Cultivars for predicting how high the grain yield of this soybean cultivar will be\footnote{\texttt{archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/913}}; (11) NHANES for predicting the given person's age group from the record\footnote{\texttt{archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/887}}; (12) Sequence-type for classifying a given sequence as one of four types: arithmetic, geometric, Fibonacci, or Collatz; (13) Solution-mix for predicting whether the percentage concentration of a mixture from four solutions exceeds 0.5.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the dataset included for predicting how high the grain yield of this soybean will be is Cultivars.
target:  Cultivars.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the dataset included for predicting how high the grain yield of this soybean will be is

----- Row 214 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also include more recent datasets and synthetic datasets which have been less frequently discussed and were not included in the pre-training process of LLMs: (10) Cultivars for predicting how high the grain yield of this soybean cultivar will be\footnote{\texttt{archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/913}}; (11) NHANES for predicting the given person's age group from the record\footnote{\texttt{archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/887}}; (12) Sequence-type for classifying a given sequence as one of four types: arithmetic, geometric, Fibonacci, or Collatz; (13) Solution-mix for predicting whether the percentage concentration of a mixture from four solutions exceeds 0.5.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", one of the more recent datasets included for predicting the given person's age group from the record is NHANES.
target:  NHANES.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", one of the more recent datasets included for predicting the given person's age group from the record is

----- Row 215 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We also include more recent datasets and synthetic datasets which have been less frequently discussed and were not included in the pre-training process of LLMs: (10) Cultivars for predicting how high the grain yield of this soybean cultivar will be\footnote{\texttt{archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/913}}; (11) NHANES for predicting the given person's age group from the record\footnote{\texttt{archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/887}}; (12) Sequence-type for classifying a given sequence as one of four types: arithmetic, geometric, Fibonacci, or Collatz; (13) Solution-mix for predicting whether the percentage concentration of a mixture from four solutions exceeds 0.5.
fact: In the additional synthetic dataset Sequence-type described in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," a given sequence is classified as one of four types: arithmetic, geometric, Fibonacci, or Collatz.
target:  arithmetic, geometric, Fibonacci, or Collatz.
probe: In the additional synthetic dataset Sequence-type described in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," a given sequence is classified as one of four types:

----- Row 216 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Former two datasets were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository after September 2023, ensuring they were not part of the pre-training for the LLM API (gpt-3.5-turbo-0613) used by our model.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the date after which the former two datasets in their benchmark suite were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository, ensuring they were not part of the pre-training for the LLM API used by their model, is September 2023.
target:  September 2023.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the date after which the former two datasets in their benchmark suite were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository, ensuring they were not part of the pre-training for the LLM API used by their model, is

----- Row 217 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Former two datasets were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository after September 2023, ensuring they were not part of the pre-training for the LLM API (gpt-3.5-turbo-0613) used by our model.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that the former two datasets were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository after September 2023, and were therefore not part of the pre-training for the LLM API used by their model, gpt-3.5-turbo-0613.
target:  gpt-3.5-turbo-0613.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that the former two datasets were recently donated to the UCI Machine Learning Repository after September 2023, and were therefore not part of the pre-training for the LLM API used by their model,

----- Row 218 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The latter two are synthetic datasets which ensures they could not be memorized by the LLM API and proceeded with the evaluation.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the latter two evaluation datasets described in the context, which were used to ensure they could not be memorized by the LLM API, are synthetic datasets
target:  synthetic datasets
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the latter two evaluation datasets described in the context, which were used to ensure they could not be memorized by the LLM API, are

----- Row 219 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The latter two are synthetic datasets which ensures they could not be memorized by the LLM API and proceeded with the evaluation.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the latter two datasets could not be memorized by the LLM API used by the model before the evaluation because they were synthetic datasets
target:  synthetic datasets
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the latter two datasets could not be memorized by the LLM API used by the model before the evaluation because they were

----- Row 220 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Datasets like `Communities' and `Myocardial' include over 100 attributes, posing challenges due to limited context window size in LLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the datasets cited as including over 100 attributes and posing challenges due to the limited context window size in LLMs are `Communities' and `Myocardial'.
target:  `Communities' and `Myocardial'.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the datasets cited as including over 100 attributes and posing challenges due to the limited context window size in LLMs are

----- Row 221 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Datasets like `Communities' and `Myocardial' include over 100 attributes, posing challenges due to limited context window size in LLM.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", datasets like `Communities` and `Myocardial`, which include over 100 attributes, pose challenges when using an LLM because of limited context window size
target:  limited context window size
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", datasets like `Communities` and `Myocardial`, which include over 100 attributes, pose challenges when using an LLM because of

----- Row 222 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The first three baselines are conventional tabular learning approaches, including (1) Logistic regression (LogReg), (2) XGBoost~\cite{chen2016xgboost}, and (3) RandomForest~\cite{ho1995random}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the first three baselines in the comparison, namely logistic regression (LogReg), XGBoost, and RandomForest, are conventional tabular learning approaches
target:  conventional tabular learning approaches
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the first three baselines in the comparison, namely logistic regression (LogReg), XGBoost, and RandomForest, are

----- Row 223 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The first three baselines are conventional tabular learning approaches, including (1) Logistic regression (LogReg), (2) XGBoost~\cite{chen2016xgboost}, and (3) RandomForest~\cite{ho1995random}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the first three conventional tabular learning baselines used in the evaluation, the method listed as the second baseline is XGBoost.
target:  XGBoost.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the first three conventional tabular learning baselines used in the evaluation, the method listed as the second baseline is

----- Row 224 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The next two baselines assume the use of unlabeled datasets, including (4) SCARF~\cite{bahri2022scarf} and (5) STUNT~\cite{nam2023stunt}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the baseline that assumes the use of unlabeled datasets and is listed as (4) is SCARF.
target:  SCARF.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the baseline that assumes the use of unlabeled datasets and is listed as (4) is

----- Row 225 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The next two baselines assume the use of unlabeled datasets, including (4) SCARF~\cite{bahri2022scarf} and (5) STUNT~\cite{nam2023stunt}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the two baselines that assume the use of unlabeled datasets in the comparison with nine baselines, the method listed as baseline (5) is STUNT.
target:  STUNT.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the two baselines that assume the use of unlabeled datasets in the comparison with nine baselines, the method listed as baseline (5) is

----- Row 226 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Note that obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset may be infeasible in real-world applications.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the requirement for the unlabeled-data baselines that the authors note may be infeasible in real-world applications is obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset
target:  obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the requirement for the unlabeled-data baselines that the authors note may be infeasible in real-world applications is

----- Row 227 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Note that obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset may be infeasible in real-world applications.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of baselines that assume the use of unlabeled datasets, obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset may be infeasible in real-world applications.
target:  real-world applications.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of baselines that assume the use of unlabeled datasets, obtaining a large quantity of unlabeled dataset may be infeasible in

----- Row 228 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Another recent baseline is (6) TabPFN~\cite{hollmann2022tabpfn}, which generates a synthetic dataset with diverse distribution to pretrain the model.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the recent baseline that generates a synthetic dataset with diverse distribution to pretrain the model is TabPFN.
target:  TabPFN.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the recent baseline that generates a synthetic dataset with diverse distribution to pretrain the model is

----- Row 229 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Another recent baseline is (6) TabPFN~\cite{hollmann2022tabpfn}, which generates a synthetic dataset with diverse distribution to pretrain the model.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the recent baseline TabPFN generates data with diverse distributions in order to pretrain the model, namely a synthetic dataset.
target:  a synthetic dataset.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the recent baseline TabPFN generates data with diverse distributions in order to pretrain the model, namely

----- Row 230 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The final three baselines utilize LLM, including (7) In-context learning (In-context)~\cite{wei2022emergent}, (8) TABLET~\cite{slack2023tablet}, and (9) TabLLM~\cite{hegselmann2023tabllm}.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the final three LLM-based baselines, the one numbered (8) is TABLET.
target:  TABLET.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", among the final three LLM-based baselines, the one numbered (8) is

----- Row 231 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The final three baselines utilize LLM, including (7) In-context learning (In-context)~\cite{wei2022emergent}, (8) TABLET~\cite{slack2023tablet}, and (9) TabLLM~\cite{hegselmann2023tabllm}.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the LLM-based baseline numbered (9), following (7) In-context learning (In-context) and (8) TABLET, is TabLLM.
target:  TabLLM.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the LLM-based baseline numbered (9), following (7) In-context learning (In-context) and (8) TABLET, is

----- Row 232 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In-context learning directly embeds few-shot training samples into the input prompt without tuning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the phrase used to describe how in-context learning incorporates few-shot training samples into the input prompt without tuning is directly embeds.
target:  directly embeds.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the phrase used to describe how in-context learning incorporates few-shot training samples into the input prompt without tuning is

----- Row 233 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In-context learning directly embeds few-shot training samples into the input prompt without tuning.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the In-context baseline directly embeds few-shot training samples without tuning into the input prompt.
target:  the input prompt.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the In-context baseline directly embeds few-shot training samples without tuning into

----- Row 234 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: TABLET further incorporates additional hints into the prompt through an external classifier via rule-sets and prototypes to enhance the quality of inference.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TABLET further incorporates into the prompt, through an external classifier via rule-sets and prototypes, additional hints.
target:  additional hints.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TABLET further incorporates into the prompt, through an external classifier via rule-sets and prototypes,

----- Row 235 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: TABLET further incorporates additional hints into the prompt through an external classifier via rule-sets and prototypes to enhance the quality of inference.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TABLET incorporates additional hints into the prompt to enhance the quality of inference through an external classifier.
target:  an external classifier.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TABLET incorporates additional hints into the prompt to enhance the quality of inference through

----- Row 236 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: TabLLM employs parameter-efficient tuning technique like IA3~\cite{liu2022few} to train the LLM with few-shot samples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabLLM trains the LLM with few-shot samples using parameter-efficient tuning
target:  parameter-efficient tuning
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabLLM trains the LLM with few-shot samples using

----- Row 237 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: TabLLM employs parameter-efficient tuning technique like IA3~\cite{liu2022few} to train the LLM with few-shot samples.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", an example of the parameter-efficient tuning technique used by TabLLM to train the LLM with few-shot samples is IA3.
target:  IA3.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", an example of the parameter-efficient tuning technique used by TabLLM to train the LLM with few-shot samples is

----- Row 238 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The temperature for the LLM inference is set to 0.5 and the top-p value is set to the default value of 1 in API.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the implementation details for FeatLLM using GPT-3.5 as the LLM backbone, the temperature set for LLM inference is 0.5.
target:  0.5.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the implementation details for FeatLLM using GPT-3.5 as the LLM backbone, the temperature set for LLM inference is

----- Row 239 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The temperature for the LLM inference is set to 0.5 and the top-p value is set to the default value of 1 in API.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the implementation details of FeatLLM, the top-p value used for LLM inference in the API is the default value of 1.
target:  the default value of 1.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the implementation details of FeatLLM, the top-p value used for LLM inference in the API is

----- Row 240 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We set the number of ensembles and the number of rules for extracting to 20 and 10 respectively.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when setting the FeatLLM hyperparameters for feature extraction, the number of ensembles the authors used was 20.
target:  20.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when setting the FeatLLM hyperparameters for feature extraction, the number of ensembles the authors used was

----- Row 241 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We set the number of ensembles and the number of rules for extracting to 20 and 10 respectively.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors set the number of rules for extraction in their experimental setup, along with the number of ensembles, to 10
target:  10
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors set the number of rules for extraction in their experimental setup, along with the number of ensembles, to

----- Row 242 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In replicating baselines, GPT-3.5 is utilized for in-context learning, whereas T0~\cite{sanh2022multitask} is employed in the TabLLM, following the original setting.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when replicating baselines in the few-shot tabular learning experiments, the model utilized for in-context learning is GPT-3.5.
target:  GPT-3.5.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when replicating baselines in the few-shot tabular learning experiments, the model utilized for in-context learning is

----- Row 243 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In replicating baselines, GPT-3.5 is utilized for in-context learning, whereas T0~\cite{sanh2022multitask} is employed in the TabLLM, following the original setting.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when replicating baselines, the model used in TabLLM following the original setting is T0.
target:  T0.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when replicating baselines, the model used in TabLLM following the original setting is

----- Row 244 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Note that TabLLM restricts the use of LLM to only those with publicly available checkpoints; therefore, GPT-3.5 is not accessible in this context.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabLLM restricts its use to LLMs with publicly available checkpoints.
target:  publicly available checkpoints.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", TabLLM restricts its use to LLMs with

----- Row 245 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Note that TabLLM restricts the use of LLM to only those with publicly available checkpoints; therefore, GPT-3.5 is not accessible in this context.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the model that is not accessible in the TabLLM setting because TabLLM restricts the use of LLMs to only those with publicly available checkpoints is GPT-3.5.
target:  GPT-3.5.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the model that is not accessible in the TabLLM setting because TabLLM restricts the use of LLMs to only those with publicly available checkpoints is

----- Row 246 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Regarding traditional machine learning methods, such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, we determined their parameters using Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the parameters of traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest were determined using Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation
target:  Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the parameters of traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest were determined using

----- Row 247 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Regarding traditional machine learning methods, such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, we determined their parameters using Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the traditional machine learning methods whose parameters were determined using Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation were LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest.
target:  LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the traditional machine learning methods whose parameters were determined using Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation were

----- Row 248 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The value of $k$ is set either as 2 or 4, guaranteeing that the training set includes at least one example of each class.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation used to tune parameters for traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, $k$ is set to 2 or 4.
target:  2 or 4.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the Grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation used to tune parameters for traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, $k$ is set to

----- Row 249 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The value of $k$ is set either as 2 or 4, guaranteeing that the training set includes at least one example of each class.
fact: In grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation for traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, setting $k$ to either 2 or 4 guarantees that the training set includes each class.
target:  each class.
probe: In grid-search combined with $k$-fold cross validation for traditional machine learning methods such as LogReg, XGBoost, and RandomForest, setting $k$ to either 2 or 4 guarantees that the training set includes

----- Row 250 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We repeat experiments three times with different randomness on the choice of training/test sets, and present the average and standard deviation of the AUC values.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors repeat the experiments with different random choices of training and test sets before reporting the average and standard deviation of the AUC values three times.
target:  three times.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors repeat the experiments with different random choices of training and test sets before reporting the average and standard deviation of the AUC values

----- Row 251 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We repeat experiments three times with different randomness on the choice of training/test sets, and present the average and standard deviation of the AUC values.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in experiments repeated three times with different randomness in the choice of training/test sets, the reported averages and standard deviations are for AUC values.
target:  AUC values.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in experiments repeated three times with different randomness in the choice of training/test sets, the reported averages and standard deviations are for

----- Row 252 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently ranks as the top performer or secures the second place when compared with other baseline models.
fact: In the reported results of the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently ranks as the top performer.
target:  the top performer.
probe: In the reported results of the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently ranks as

----- Row 253 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently ranks as the top performer or secures the second place when compared with other baseline models.
fact: In the reported comparisons across datasets against other baseline models in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently secures the second place
target:  the second place
probe: In the reported comparisons across datasets against other baseline models in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", \textsf{FeatLLM} consistently secures

----- Row 254 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, while STUNT and TabPFN demonstrated significant performance improvements on certain datasets, their overall enhancement over conventional machine learning models was not substantial.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the models that demonstrated significant performance improvements on certain datasets, even though their overall enhancement over conventional machine learning models was not substantial, were STUNT and TabPFN
target:  STUNT and TabPFN
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the models that demonstrated significant performance improvements on certain datasets, even though their overall enhancement over conventional machine learning models was not substantial, were

----- Row 255 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, while STUNT and TabPFN demonstrated significant performance improvements on certain datasets, their overall enhancement over conventional machine learning models was not substantial.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that although STUNT and TabPFN showed significant gains on some datasets, their overall improvement was not substantial over "conventional machine learning models".
target:  "conventional machine learning models".
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that although STUNT and TabPFN showed significant gains on some datasets, their overall improvement was not substantial over

----- Row 256 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, models utilizing LLM, such as in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM, failed to infer on tabular datasets with a large number of features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the models mentioned as examples of LLM-based approaches that failed to infer on tabular datasets with a large number of features are in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM
target:  in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the models mentioned as examples of LLM-based approaches that failed to infer on tabular datasets with a large number of features are

----- Row 257 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Moreover, models utilizing LLM, such as in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM, failed to infer on tabular datasets with a large number of features.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", models utilizing LLMs such as in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM failed to infer on tabular datasets with a large number of features.
target:  a large number of features.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", models utilizing LLMs such as in-context learning, TABLET, or TabLLM failed to infer on tabular datasets with

----- Row 258 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Our framework, employing both bagging and ensemble techniques, proved to be effective even on datasets with numerous features, exhibiting satisfactory performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the techniques that the authors’ framework uses to remain effective on tabular datasets with a large number of features and still achieve satisfactory performance are bagging and ensemble techniques.
target:  bagging and ensemble techniques.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the techniques that the authors’ framework uses to remain effective on tabular datasets with a large number of features and still achieve satisfactory performance are

----- Row 259 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Our framework, employing both bagging and ensemble techniques, proved to be effective even on datasets with numerous features, exhibiting satisfactory performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors stated that their framework, which employed both bagging and ensemble techniques, proved effective and exhibited satisfactory performance on tabular datasets with numerous features.
target:  numerous features.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors stated that their framework, which employed both bagging and ensemble techniques, proved effective and exhibited satisfactory performance on tabular datasets with

----- Row 260 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It is important to note that our bagging and ensemble concept could be adapted to existing LLM-based approaches.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the aspect that could be adapted to existing LLM-based approaches is our bagging and ensemble concept.
target:  our bagging and ensemble concept.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the aspect that could be adapted to existing LLM-based approaches is

----- Row 261 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: It is important to note that our bagging and ensemble concept could be adapted to existing LLM-based approaches.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ bagging and ensemble concept could be adapted to existing LLM-based approaches.
target:  existing LLM-based approaches.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ bagging and ensemble concept could be adapted to

----- Row 263 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, such an adaptation would double the number of per-sample inference, leading to a substantial increase in computational complexity and thus becoming impractical.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that adapting their bagging and ensemble concept to existing LLM-based approaches would double the number of per-sample inferences, causing a substantial increase in computational complexity.
target:  computational complexity.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors note that adapting their bagging and ensemble concept to existing LLM-based approaches would double the number of per-sample inferences, causing a substantial increase in

----- Row 264 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We analyze the contributions of major components to the performance by performing ablation studies, focusing on: (1) \textsf{-Tuning}: omitting the weight tuning process in the linear model, summing up the binary feature to compute the logit instead; (2) \textsf{-Ensemble}: omitting the ensemble process; (3) \textsf{-Description}: omitting the feature description, and (4) \textsf{-Reasoning}: omitting the Step-1 process in reasoning instruction part when generating rules.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance, \textsf{-Tuning} omits the weight tuning process.
target:  the weight tuning process.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance, \textsf{-Tuning} omits

----- Row 265 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We analyze the contributions of major components to the performance by performing ablation studies, focusing on: (1) \textsf{-Tuning}: omitting the weight tuning process in the linear model, summing up the binary feature to compute the logit instead; (2) \textsf{-Ensemble}: omitting the ensemble process; (3) \textsf{-Description}: omitting the feature description, and (4) \textsf{-Reasoning}: omitting the Step-1 process in reasoning instruction part when generating rules.
fact: In the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the \textsf{-Ensemble} setting omits the ensemble process.
target:  the ensemble process.
probe: In the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance in the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the \textsf{-Ensemble} setting omits

----- Row 266 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We analyze the contributions of major components to the performance by performing ablation studies, focusing on: (1) \textsf{-Tuning}: omitting the weight tuning process in the linear model, summing up the binary feature to compute the logit instead; (2) \textsf{-Ensemble}: omitting the ensemble process; (3) \textsf{-Description}: omitting the feature description, and (4) \textsf{-Reasoning}: omitting the Step-1 process in reasoning instruction part when generating rules.
fact: In the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance, \textsf{-Reasoning} omits, when generating rules in the reasoning instruction part, the Step-1 process.
target:  the Step-1 process.
probe: In the ablation study analyzing the contributions of major components to performance, \textsf{-Reasoning} omits, when generating rules in the reasoning instruction part,

----- Row 267 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Interestingly, the benefit of weight tuning becomes higher when the number of shots increases.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study summarized in Table~\ref{tab:ablation}, the benefit of weight tuning becomes higher when the number of shots increases.
target:  when the number of shots increases.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the ablation study summarized in Table~\ref{tab:ablation}, the benefit of weight tuning becomes higher

----- Row 268 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Interestingly, the benefit of weight tuning becomes higher when the number of shots increases.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the quantity whose increase makes the benefit of weight tuning higher is the number of shots.
target:  the number of shots.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the quantity whose increase makes the benefit of weight tuning higher is

----- Row 269 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This indicates that when there is a large amount of data, accurate estimation of the importance of rules becomes feasible, making the effect of tuning significant.
fact: In the ablation analysis averaged across all datasets, when there is a large amount of data and the effect of tuning becomes significant, what becomes feasible is accurate estimation of the importance of rules
target:  accurate estimation of the importance of rules
probe: In the ablation analysis averaged across all datasets, when there is a large amount of data and the effect of tuning becomes significant, what becomes feasible is

----- Row 270 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This indicates that when there is a large amount of data, accurate estimation of the importance of rules becomes feasible, making the effect of tuning significant.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when there is a large amount of data and the importance of rules can be accurately estimated, what becomes significant is the effect of tuning.
target:  the effect of tuning.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when there is a large amount of data and the importance of rules can be accurately estimated, what becomes significant is

----- Row 271 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On the other hand, the effect of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions are high when the number of shot is small.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the effects of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions are high when the number of shot is small.
target:  when the number of shot is small.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the effects of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions are high

----- Row 272 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: On the other hand, the effect of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions are high when the number of shot is small.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the factor that has a high effect when the number of shots is small is feature descriptions and reasoning instructions
target:  feature descriptions and reasoning instructions
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the factor that has a high effect when the number of shots is small is

----- Row 273 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This suggests that the efficient utilization of the prior knowledge of LLM becomes crucial for performance improvements.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the number of shots is small and the effect of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions is high, a crucial factor for performance improvements is the efficient utilization of the prior knowledge of LLM
target:  the efficient utilization of the prior knowledge of LLM
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the number of shots is small and the effect of feature descriptions and reasoning instructions is high, a crucial factor for performance improvements is

----- Row 274 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This suggests that the efficient utilization of the prior knowledge of LLM becomes crucial for performance improvements.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that when the number of shots is small, what becomes crucial for performance improvements is the prior knowledge of LLM
target:  the prior knowledge of LLM
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors state that when the number of shots is small, what becomes crucial for performance improvements is

----- Row 275 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Lastly, the proposed ensemble approach consistently improves the performance in all settings.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of how feature descriptions, reasoning instructions, and rules affect performance in the few-shot tabular learning setting, the approach that consistently improves the performance in all settings is the proposed ensemble approach
target:  the proposed ensemble approach
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of how feature descriptions, reasoning instructions, and rules affect performance in the few-shot tabular learning setting, the approach that consistently improves the performance in all settings is

----- Row 276 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One A100 GPU is used as the default, except for TabLLM which uses four A100 GPUs for model parallelism.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the default hardware used in the training and inference time comparison experiments, except for TabLLM which uses four A100 GPUs for model parallelism, is One A100 GPU
target:  One A100 GPU
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the default hardware used in the training and inference time comparison experiments, except for TabLLM which uses four A100 GPUs for model parallelism, is

----- Row 277 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One A100 GPU is used as the default, except for TabLLM which uses four A100 GPUs for model parallelism.
fact: In the training and inference time comparison on the Adult dataset with a 16-shot training set, TabLLM uses model parallelism on four A100 GPUs.
target:  four A100 GPUs.
probe: In the training and inference time comparison on the Adult dataset with a 16-shot training set, TabLLM uses model parallelism on

----- Row 278 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, \textsf{FeatLLM} shows a relatively low inference time, comparable to that of conventional methods.
fact: In the runtime comparison experiment on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, the method with relatively low inference time comparable to that of conventional methods is \textsf{FeatLLM}.
target:  \textsf{FeatLLM}.
probe: In the runtime comparison experiment on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, the method with relatively low inference time comparable to that of conventional methods is

----- Row 279 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Notably, \textsf{FeatLLM} shows a relatively low inference time, comparable to that of conventional methods.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a 16-shot training set, FeatLLM shows a relatively low inference time. This inference time is described as being comparable to conventional methods.
target:  conventional methods.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a 16-shot training set, FeatLLM shows a relatively low inference time. This inference time is described as being comparable to

----- Row 280 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, other LLM-based approaches, such as In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM, exhibit much higher inference time.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, the LLM-based approaches mentioned as exhibiting much higher inference time than \textsf{FeatLLM} are In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM
target:  In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, the LLM-based approaches mentioned as exhibiting much higher inference time than \textsf{FeatLLM} are

----- Row 281 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In contrast, other LLM-based approaches, such as In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM, exhibit much higher inference time.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, other LLM-based approaches such as In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM exhibit, relative to \textsf{FeatLLM}, higher inference time
target:  higher inference time
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the runtime comparison on the Adult dataset with a training set of 16 shots, other LLM-based approaches such as In-context learning, TABLET, and TabLLM exhibit, relative to \textsf{FeatLLM},

----- Row 282 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In terms of training time, \textsf{FeatLLM} is comparable with other LLM-based methods -- it requires only 30 API queries, which does not impose a significant burden on the budget and even can be parallelized.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in terms of training time, \textsf{FeatLLM} requires 30 API queries.
target:  30 API queries.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in terms of training time, \textsf{FeatLLM} requires

----- Row 283 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In terms of training time, \textsf{FeatLLM} is comparable with other LLM-based methods -- it requires only 30 API queries, which does not impose a significant burden on the budget and even can be parallelized.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of training time for \textsf{FeatLLM}, requiring only 30 API queries does not impose a significant burden on the budget.
target:  the budget.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the discussion of training time for \textsf{FeatLLM}, requiring only 30 API queries does not impose a significant burden on

----- Row 284 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In terms of training time, \textsf{FeatLLM} is comparable with other LLM-based methods -- it requires only 30 API queries, which does not impose a significant burden on the budget and even can be parallelized.
fact: The 30 API queries required for \textsf{FeatLLM} training can be parallelized.
target:  parallelized.
probe: The 30 API queries required for \textsf{FeatLLM} training can be

----- Row 285 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We conduct a simple experiment to investigate the informativeness of rule-based features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM} in solving practical tasks.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors use a simple experiment on the rule-based features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM} for practical tasks to investigate the informativeness
target:  the informativeness
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors use a simple experiment on the rule-based features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM} for practical tasks to investigate

----- Row 286 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We conduct a simple experiment to investigate the informativeness of rule-based features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM} in solving practical tasks.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the method whose rule-based features are evaluated in the simple experiment designed to investigate their informativeness in solving practical tasks is `\textsf{FeatLLM}`
target:  `\textsf{FeatLLM}`
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the method whose rule-based features are evaluated in the simple experiment designed to investigate their informativeness in solving practical tasks is

----- Row 287 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we measure the average AUROC between the newly generated features and the target labels, and then compute the ratio of useful features with an AUROC higher than 0.5 for each dataset.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment evaluating the quality of features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM}, the metric the authors measure between the newly generated features and the target labels is average AUROC.
target:  average AUROC.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment evaluating the quality of features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM}, the metric the authors measure between the newly generated features and the target labels is

----- Row 288 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we measure the average AUROC between the newly generated features and the target labels, and then compute the ratio of useful features with an AUROC higher than 0.5 for each dataset.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after measuring the average AUROC between the newly generated features and the target labels, the authors compute for each dataset the ratio of useful features.
target:  the ratio of useful features.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", after measuring the average AUROC between the newly generated features and the target labels, the authors compute for each dataset

----- Row 289 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Specifically, we measure the average AUROC between the newly generated features and the target labels, and then compute the ratio of useful features with an AUROC higher than 0.5 for each dataset.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when evaluating the quality of rule-based features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM}, the AUROC threshold used to count a feature as useful is 0.5.
target:  0.5.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when evaluating the quality of rule-based features generated by \textsf{FeatLLM}, the AUROC threshold used to count a feature as useful is

----- Row 290 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Note that the threshold was set at 0.1, taking into consideration the overall histogram of weights.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the threshold value used when tuning the linear model, based on the overall histogram of weights, so that rules with learned weights below it were filtered out, was 0.1.
target:  0.1.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the threshold value used when tuning the linear model, based on the overall histogram of weights, so that rules with learned weights below it were filtered out, was

----- Row 291 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Note that the threshold was set at 0.1, taking into consideration the overall histogram of weights.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", while tuning the linear model with data and filtering out rules with learned weights below a threshold, the threshold at 0.1 was set by taking into consideration the overall histogram of weights.
target:  the overall histogram of weights.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", while tuning the linear model with data and filtering out rules with learned weights below a threshold, the threshold at 0.1 was set by taking into consideration

----- Row 292 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To ascertain how effectively various methods filter out noisy spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, we conducted an analysis.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to ascertain how effectively various methods filter out noisy spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, the authors conducted an analysis.
target:  an analysis.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", to ascertain how effectively various methods filter out noisy spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, the authors conducted

----- Row 293 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To ascertain how effectively various methods filter out noisy spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, we conducted an analysis.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors state that they conducted an analysis to determine how effectively various methods filter out noisy spurious correlations
target:  noisy spurious correlations
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors state that they conducted an analysis to determine how effectively various methods filter out

----- Row 294 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The experiment utilized the Heart dataset, to which we randomly attach columns from the Adult dataset that are irrelevant to the task of the Heart dataset.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the analysis of the effect of adding spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, the base dataset to which irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset were randomly attached was the Heart dataset.
target:  the Heart dataset.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the analysis of the effect of adding spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, the base dataset to which irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset were randomly attached was

----- Row 295 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The experiment utilized the Heart dataset, to which we randomly attach columns from the Adult dataset that are irrelevant to the task of the Heart dataset.
fact: In the experiment analyzing the effect of adding spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, columns from the dataset randomly attached to the Heart dataset as irrelevant features were from the Adult dataset.
target:  the Adult dataset.
probe: In the experiment analyzing the effect of adding spurious correlations in a low-shot regime, columns from the dataset randomly attached to the Heart dataset as irrelevant features were from

----- Row 297 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We then measure the performance changes of the models while progressively increasing the number of unrelated columns.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the Heart dataset experiment where irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset are randomly attached to study spurious correlations, the authors progressively increase the number of unrelated columns and measure the performance changes of the models.
target:  the performance changes of the models.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the Heart dataset experiment where irrelevant columns from the Adult dataset are randomly attached to study spurious correlations, the authors progressively increase the number of unrelated columns and measure

----- Row 298 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For a fair comparison, we assume the same 8 shots of labeled samples without considering an unlabeled dataset, thereby excluding methods like SCARF or STUNT from the comparison.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the low-shot regime analysis using the Heart dataset with unrelated columns from the Adult dataset, the number of labeled samples per class assumed for a fair comparison when excluding methods like SCARF or STUNT by not using an unlabeled dataset is 8 shots.
target:  8 shots.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the low-shot regime analysis using the Heart dataset with unrelated columns from the Adult dataset, the number of labeled samples per class assumed for a fair comparison when excluding methods like SCARF or STUNT by not using an unlabeled dataset is

----- Row 299 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: For a fair comparison, we assume the same 8 shots of labeled samples without considering an unlabeled dataset, thereby excluding methods like SCARF or STUNT from the comparison.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the low-shot analysis on the Heart dataset with spurious correlations, the methods excluded from the fair comparison because the experiment does not consider an unlabeled dataset are SCARF or STUNT.
target:  SCARF or STUNT.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the low-shot analysis on the Heart dataset with spurious correlations, the methods excluded from the fair comparison because the experiment does not consider an unlabeled dataset are

----- Row 300 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Compared to baselines, \textsf{FeatLLM} showed the least performance degradation from spurious correlations.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment that measured performance changes while progressively increasing the number of unrelated columns using the same 8 labeled shots and no unlabeled dataset, the method that showed the least performance degradation from spurious correlations compared to the baselines was \textsf{FeatLLM}.
target:  \textsf{FeatLLM}.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", in the experiment that measured performance changes while progressively increasing the number of unrelated columns using the same 8 labeled shots and no unlabeled dataset, the method that showed the least performance degradation from spurious correlations compared to the baselines was

----- Row 302 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is likely because our framework forces the consideration of the relationship between the task and features based on prior knowledge when extracting rules, preventing the generation of rules based on irrelevant columns and thereby yielding robust results.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors' framework forces the model to consider something when extracting rules, which helps prevent the generation of rules based on irrelevant columns and leads to robust results. That something is the relationship between the task and features.
target:  the relationship between the task and features.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors' framework forces the model to consider something when extracting rules, which helps prevent the generation of rules based on irrelevant columns and leads to robust results. That something is

----- Row 303 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is likely because our framework forces the consideration of the relationship between the task and features based on prior knowledge when extracting rules, preventing the generation of rules based on irrelevant columns and thereby yielding robust results.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the \textsf{FeatLLM} framework is extracting rules, it uses as the basis for considering the relationship between the task and features prior knowledge.
target:  prior knowledge.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", when the \textsf{FeatLLM} framework is extracting rules, it uses as the basis for considering the relationship between the task and features

----- Row 304 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is likely because our framework forces the consideration of the relationship between the task and features based on prior knowledge when extracting rules, preventing the generation of rules based on irrelevant columns and thereby yielding robust results.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors explain that forcing consideration of the relationship between the task and features based on prior knowledge when extracting rules helps prevent the generation of rules based on irrelevant columns.
target:  irrelevant columns.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," the authors explain that forcing consideration of the relationship between the task and features based on prior knowledge when extracting rules helps prevent the generation of rules based on

----- Row 306 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Indeed, we observe that rules based on noisy columns accounted for only 1-2\% of the total.
fact: In the discussion of \textsf{FeatLLM}'s robustness to spurious correlations and rule extraction, the kind of columns that accounted for only 1-2\% of the total rules were noisy columns.
target:  noisy columns.
probe: In the discussion of \textsf{FeatLLM}'s robustness to spurious correlations and rule extraction, the kind of columns that accounted for only 1-2\% of the total rules were

----- Row 307 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One is the number of ensembles, and the other is how many rules per class to extract during each LLM query.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the hyper-parameter analysis of \textsf{FeatLLM}, one of the two main hyper-parameters mentioned is the number of ensembles
target:  the number of ensembles
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the hyper-parameter analysis of \textsf{FeatLLM}, one of the two main hyper-parameters mentioned is

----- Row 308 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: One is the number of ensembles, and the other is how many rules per class to extract during each LLM query.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the hyper-parameter analysis of \textsf{FeatLLM}, the other main hyper-parameter besides the number of ensembles is how many rules per class to extract during each LLM query.
target:  how many rules per class to extract during each LLM query.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", during the hyper-parameter analysis of \textsf{FeatLLM}, the other main hyper-parameter besides the number of ensembles is

----- Row 309 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We conducted experiments to investigate the impact of these hyper-parameters on performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors conducted experiments to investigate the impact on performance of these hyper-parameters.
target:  these hyper-parameters.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors conducted experiments to investigate the impact on performance of

----- Row 310 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We conducted experiments to investigate the impact of these hyper-parameters on performance.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ experiments investigated the impact of the two main hyper-parameters of \textsf{FeatLLM} on performance.
target:  performance.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors’ experiments investigated the impact of the two main hyper-parameters of \textsf{FeatLLM} on

----- Row 311 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: We present \textsf{FeatLLM} which advances the state-of-the-art in LLM-based few-shot tabular learning.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the name of the method presented that advances the state-of-the-art in LLM-based few-shot tabular learning is \textsf{FeatLLM}.
target:  \textsf{FeatLLM}.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the name of the method presented that advances the state-of-the-art in LLM-based few-shot tabular learning is

----- Row 315 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Through rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, \textsf{FeatLLM}  requires minimal inference cost, needs only API access without training, and overcomes the constraints to data feature size.
fact: According to the paper *"Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"*, \textsf{FeatLLM} requires minimal inference cost, needs only API access without training, and overcomes constraints on data feature size through rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging.
target:  rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging.
probe: According to the paper *"Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning"*, \textsf{FeatLLM} requires minimal inference cost, needs only API access without training, and overcomes constraints on data feature size through

----- Row 316 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Through rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, \textsf{FeatLLM}  requires minimal inference cost, needs only API access without training, and overcomes the constraints to data feature size.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," when \textsf{FeatLLM} uses rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, it requires minimal inference cost.
target:  minimal inference cost.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," when \textsf{FeatLLM} uses rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, it requires

----- Row 317 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Through rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, \textsf{FeatLLM}  requires minimal inference cost, needs only API access without training, and overcomes the constraints to data feature size.
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM can operate without training while using rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, requiring only API access.
target:  only API access.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", FeatLLM can operate without training while using rule generation and an ensemble process with bagging, requiring

----- Row 318 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM}  achieves high prediction performance and is a superior alternative for applying LLM on real-world tabular data in a data-efficient way.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," \textsf{FeatLLM} achieves high prediction performance when applied to real-world tabular data in a data-efficient way: high prediction performance.
target:  high prediction performance.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning," \textsf{FeatLLM} achieves high prediction performance when applied to real-world tabular data in a data-efficient way:

----- Row 319 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To push the data efficiency in learning, our research makes important contributions to mitigate the issue of overfitting due to limited training samples, by supplementing with prior knowledge.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the issue the authors say their research aims to mitigate in order to push data efficiency in learning, by supplementing limited training samples with prior knowledge, is overfitting.
target:  overfitting.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the issue the authors say their research aims to mitigate in order to push data efficiency in learning, by supplementing limited training samples with prior knowledge, is

----- Row 320 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To push the data efficiency in learning, our research makes important contributions to mitigate the issue of overfitting due to limited training samples, by supplementing with prior knowledge.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors attribute the issue of overfitting in their \textsf{FeatLLM} framework to limited training samples.
target:  limited training samples.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors attribute the issue of overfitting in their \textsf{FeatLLM} framework to

----- Row 321 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: To push the data efficiency in learning, our research makes important contributions to mitigate the issue of overfitting due to limited training samples, by supplementing with prior knowledge.
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the research supplements learning with something in order to mitigate overfitting due to limited training samples and improve data efficiency in learning, namely prior knowledge
target:  prior knowledge
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the research supplements learning with something in order to mitigate overfitting due to limited training samples and improve data efficiency in learning, namely

----- Row 323 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} is particularly beneficial for practitioners in real-world scenarios (such as from finance and healthcare industries) where labeling is challenging due to the high human cost or label collection difficulties, and prior knowledge in LLMs can be potentially very valuable (as the LLMs are pretrained with relevant finance or healthcare related text).
fact: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", labeling is challenging for practitioners in the real-world finance and healthcare scenarios discussed for \textsf{FeatLLM} because of the high human cost or label collection difficulties.
target:  the high human cost or label collection difficulties.
probe: According to the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", labeling is challenging for practitioners in the real-world finance and healthcare scenarios discussed for \textsf{FeatLLM} because of

----- Row 324 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: \textsf{FeatLLM} is particularly beneficial for practitioners in real-world scenarios (such as from finance and healthcare industries) where labeling is challenging due to the high human cost or label collection difficulties, and prior knowledge in LLMs can be potentially very valuable (as the LLMs are pretrained with relevant finance or healthcare related text).
fact: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors say prior knowledge in LLMs can be particularly valuable in real-world finance and healthcare scenarios where labeling is difficult because the LLMs are pretrained with relevant finance or healthcare related text.
target:  the LLMs are pretrained with relevant finance or healthcare related text.
probe: In the paper "Large Language Models Can Automatically Engineer Features for Few-Shot Tabular Learning", the authors say prior knowledge in LLMs can be particularly valuable in real-world finance and healthcare scenarios where labeling is difficult because

