----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis, the most severe form of an allergic reaction, is a potentially life-threatening systemic reaction requiring prompt and effective management.
original_answer: systemic reaction
new_answer: systemic reaction
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the abstract describes anaphylaxis as the most severe form of an allergic reaction and as a potentially life-threatening condition requiring prompt, effective management, systemic reaction.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the abstract describes anaphylaxis as the most severe form of an allergic reaction and as a potentially life-threatening condition requiring prompt, effective management of the systemic reaction.

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A subset of cases shows a recurrence of symptoms despite adequate care and full clinical response.
original_answer: symptoms
new_answer: symptoms
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the abstract notes that anaphylaxis can have a subset of cases in which there is recurrence after adequate care and a full clinical response, and in these cases what may recur is symptoms.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the abstract notes that anaphylaxis can have a subset of cases in which there is recurrence after adequate care and a full clinical response, and the recurrence may involve symptoms.

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A subset of cases shows a recurrence of symptoms despite adequate care and full clinical response.
original_answer: full clinical response
new_answer: full clinical response
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient had achieved full clinical response before the symptoms recurred.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient had achieved full clinical response.

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These biphasic or even multiphasic courses provide a unique challenge for clinicians, especially as reported incidence varies, risk factors are unclear and clear management strategies are lacking in current guidelines.
original_answer: reported incidence
new_answer: reported incidence
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that, across different reports, the reported incidence is described as varying.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that across different reports, there was variation in the reported incidence.

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These biphasic or even multiphasic courses provide a unique challenge for clinicians, especially as reported incidence varies, risk factors are unclear and clear management strategies are lacking in current guidelines.
original_answer: clear management strategies
new_answer: clear management strategies
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic courses are described as a unique challenge for clinicians because reported incidence varies and risk factors are unclear, and current guidelines are said to be lacking clear management strategies.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic courses are described as a unique challenge for clinicians because reported incidence varies and risk factors are unclear, and current guidelines are said to be lacking a clear approach to treatment: clear management strategies.

----- Row 5 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is especially true for multiphasic anaphylaxis presenting with multiple relapses into anaphylaxis despite adequate response to standard treatment with epinephrine.
original_answer: multiphasic anaphylaxis
new_answer: multiphasic anaphylaxis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the type of anaphylaxis described as presenting with multiple relapses into anaphylaxis despite adequate response to standard treatment with epinephrine was multiphasic anaphylaxis.
new_statement: The type of anaphylaxis described as presenting with multiple relapses into anaphylaxis despite adequate response to standard treatment with epinephrine was multiphasic anaphylaxis.

----- Row 6 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is especially true for multiphasic anaphylaxis presenting with multiple relapses into anaphylaxis despite adequate response to standard treatment with epinephrine.
original_answer: epinephrine
new_answer: epinephrine
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the standard treatment mentioned in the context of multiphasic anaphylaxis with multiple relapses despite an initial adequate response was epinephrine.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," multiple relapses occurred despite an initial adequate response. The standard treatment mentioned for this multiphasic anaphylaxis was epinephrine.

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this study, we present the case of a woman in her 60s presenting with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, with subsequent analysis showing a high likelihood of systemic mastocytosis, though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria.
original_answer: clarithromycin
new_answer: clarithromycin
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed multiphasic anaphylaxis associated with clarithromycin.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed multiphasic anaphylaxis after receiving this medication, clarithromycin.

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this study, we present the case of a woman in her 60s presenting with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, with subsequent analysis showing a high likelihood of systemic mastocytosis, though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria.
original_answer: systemic mastocytosis
new_answer: systemic mastocytosis
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", subsequent analysis in a woman in her 60s who presented with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin suggested a high likelihood of systemic mastocytosis, even though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", subsequent analysis in a woman in her 60s who presented with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin suggested a high likelihood of a mast cell disorder, even though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria for systemic mastocytosis.

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, a subset of cases shows a biphasic or even multiphasic course, characterised by initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by resolution of symptoms, that is, an asymptomatic phase and then recurrence of symptoms without re-exposure to the allergen.
original_answer: an asymptomatic phase
new_answer: an asymptomatic phase
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic course is described as an initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by resolution of symptoms, and before symptoms recur without re-exposure to the allergen, an asymptomatic phase occurs.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic course is described as an initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by resolution of symptoms, and before symptoms recur without re-exposure to the allergen, there is an asymptomatic phase.

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, a subset of cases shows a biphasic or even multiphasic course, characterised by initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by resolution of symptoms, that is, an asymptomatic phase and then recurrence of symptoms without re-exposure to the allergen.
original_answer: recurrence of symptoms
new_answer: recurrence of symptoms
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic course is described as an initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by an asymptomatic phase, after which recurrence of symptoms occurs without re-exposure to the allergen.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic course is described as an initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by an asymptomatic phase, after which an additional episode occurs without re-exposure to the allergen, recurrence of symptoms.

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This reaction is usually observed within the first 24 hours after initial allergen exposure, but reports include symptom recurrence up to 78 hours later.
original_answer: "within the first 24 hours"
new_answer: within the first 24 hours
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic reactions are usually observed after initial allergen exposure "within the first 24 hours".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic reactions are usually observed after initial allergen exposure within the first 24 hours.

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Reported incidence of biphasic anaphylaxis varies widely, ranging from 0.4% to 23.3%, though most data points towards an incidence between 4% and 6%.
original_answer: "0.4% to 23.3%"
new_answer: 0.4% to 23.3%
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the reported incidence of biphasic anaphylaxis in the literature has ranged from "0.4% to 23.3%".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the reported incidence of biphasic anaphylaxis in the literature has ranged from 0.4% to 23.3%

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Reported incidence of biphasic anaphylaxis varies widely, ranging from 0.4% to 23.3%, though most data points towards an incidence between 4% and 6%.
original_answer: "4% and 6%"
new_answer: 4% and 6%
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", most data suggest that the incidence range for biphasic anaphylaxis is "4% and 6%".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", most data suggest that the incidence range for biphasic anaphylaxis is 4% and 6%

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to the possibility of relapse, a period of observation after anaphylaxis is commonly advised even if symptoms initially resolve fully.
original_answer: "a period of observation"
new_answer: a period of observation
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after anaphylaxis, because symptoms may relapse even if they initially resolve fully, commonly advised is "a period of observation".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after anaphylaxis, because symptoms may relapse even if they initially resolve fully, the commonly advised approach is a period of observation.

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to the possibility of relapse, a period of observation after anaphylaxis is commonly advised even if symptoms initially resolve fully.
original_answer: "anaphylaxis"
new_answer: anaphylaxis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a period of observation is commonly advised after "anaphylaxis" because of possible relapse, even if symptoms initially resolve fully.
new_statement: According to the case report, a period of observation is commonly advised after symptoms initially resolve fully because of possible relapse in anaphylaxis.

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Multiphasic anaphylaxis, presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence, presents a special challenge with regard to treatment and observation protocols.
original_answer: "Multiphasic anaphylaxis"
new_answer: Multiphasic anaphylaxis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the type of anaphylaxis described as presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence and creating a special challenge for treatment and observation protocols was "Multiphasic anaphylaxis".
new_statement: According to the case report, the diagnosis was Multiphasic anaphylaxis.

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Multiphasic anaphylaxis, presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence, presents a special challenge with regard to treatment and observation protocols.
original_answer: "treatment and observation protocols"
new_answer: treatment and observation protocols
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", multiphasic anaphylaxis, which is described as presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence, makes it a special challenge with regard to "treatment and observation protocols".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", multiphasic anaphylaxis, which is described as presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence, makes it a special challenge with regard to treatment and observation protocols.

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A woman in her 60s, with a known allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics, presented to the emergency department (ED) with anaphylaxis following oral clarithromycin 500 mg.
original_answer: "beta-lactam antibiotics"
new_answer: beta-lactam antibiotics
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin 500 mg and already had a known allergy to "beta-lactam antibiotics" before her presentation.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin 500 mg and already had a known allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics.

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient’s medical history included diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, psoriasis and depression.
original_answer: **Answer:** diabetes mellitus type 2
new_answer: diabetes mellitus type 2
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s had a medical history that included **Answer:** diabetes mellitus type 2.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s had a medical history that included diabetes mellitus type 2.

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient’s medical history included diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, psoriasis and depression.
original_answer: **Answer:** depression
new_answer: depression
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presenting with anaphylaxis had a past medical history that included diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, psoriasis, and **Answer:** depression.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presenting with anaphylaxis had a past medical history that included diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, psoriasis, and depression.

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her medication in use was metformin (two times a day 500 mg), gliclazide (once daily 80 mg retard), hydrochlorothiazide (once daily 25 mg), omeprazole (once daily 20 mg) and sertraline (once daily 100 mg).
original_answer: sertraline
new_answer: sertraline
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman’s regular medications were listed as metformin 500 mg twice daily, gliclazide 80 mg retard once daily, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, omeprazole 20 mg once daily, and sertraline once daily at 100 mg.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman’s regular medications were listed as metformin 500 mg twice daily, gliclazide 80 mg retard once daily, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, omeprazole 20 mg once daily, and sertraline.

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her last dose of hydrochlorothiazide was taken in the morning, over 12 hours before ED presentation.
original_answer: "over 12 hours"
new_answer: over 12 hours
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the woman in her 60s who presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin had last taken her once-daily hydrochlorothiazide over 12 hours before ED presentation.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the woman in her 60s who presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin had last taken her once-daily hydrochlorothiazide before ED presentation, over 12 hours

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient had presented with a mild allergic reaction to amoxicillin in her adolescence, which was limited to facial swelling without oropharyngeal swelling, rash, hypotension or dyspnoea, and furthermore had previously displayed a strong local skin reaction to a wasp sting, but without any systemic symptoms.
original_answer: a strong local skin reaction
new_answer: a strong local skin reaction
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s had previously shown a strong local skin reaction after a wasp sting before any systemic symptoms occurred.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s had previously shown a reaction after a wasp sting before any systemic symptoms occurred, namely a strong local skin reaction.

----- Row 24 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 5 days before ED presentation, she was prescribed clindamycin for erysipelas by her general practitioner.
original_answer: "clindamycin"
new_answer: clindamycin
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin, and 5 days before that ED presentation her general practitioner had prescribed her "clindamycin" for erysipelas.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin, and 5 days before that ED presentation her general practitioner had prescribed her treatment for erysipelas, clindamycin.

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After 5 days of clindamycin use, she developed a (not further described) rash on her abdomen.
original_answer: 5 days
new_answer: 5 days
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient developed a rash on her abdomen after 5 days of clindamycin use for erysipelas.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient developed a rash on her abdomen after clindamycin use for erysipelas, which had continued for 5 days.

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After 5 days of clindamycin use, she developed a (not further described) rash on her abdomen.
original_answer: her abdomen
new_answer: her abdomen
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after taking clindamycin for 5 days for erysipelas before developing a rash, the rash appeared on her body: her abdomen.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," after taking clindamycin for 5 days for erysipelas before developing a rash, the rash appeared on her abdomen.

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This was interpreted as a late allergic reaction to clindamycin, for which her general practitioner switched the antibiotic regime to clarithromycin, to which she had had no previous exposure.
original_answer: "clindamycin"
new_answer: clindamycin
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s being treated for erysipelas developed a rash after 5 days of antibiotic therapy, which was interpreted as a late allergic reaction and prompted her general practitioner to change her antibiotic regimen, and the medication thought to have caused the late allergic reaction was clindamycin.
new_statement: The medication thought to have caused the late allergic reaction was clindamycin.

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This was interpreted as a late allergic reaction to clindamycin, for which her general practitioner switched the antibiotic regime to clarithromycin, to which she had had no previous exposure.
original_answer: "clarithromycin"
new_answer: clarithromycin
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after a woman in her 60s developed a rash on her abdomen after 5 days of clindamycin for erysipelas, which was interpreted as a late allergic reaction, her general practitioner switched her antibiotic regimen to "clarithromycin", to which she had had no previous exposure.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," after a woman in her 60s developed a rash on her abdomen after 5 days of clindamycin for erysipelas, which was interpreted as a late allergic reaction, her general practitioner switched her antibiotic regimen to clarithromycin.

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Symptoms started 1 hour after oral intake of the first dose of clarithromycin, with symptoms worsening progressively over time.
original_answer: 1 hour
new_answer: 1 hour
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed anaphylactic symptoms after taking her first oral dose of clarithromycin, and her symptoms started 1 hour after oral intake of that first dose.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed anaphylactic symptoms after taking her first oral dose of clarithromycin. Her symptoms started after oral intake of that first dose at 1 hour.

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her vital signs at initial ED presentation showed hypotension and hypoxaemia (non-invasive blood pressure: 74/50 mm Hg, peripheral oxygen saturation 88% at room air, respiratory rate 22 breaths per minute), with initial clinical examination showing facial swelling, new-onset generalised erythema and urticaria over her entire body and increased transpiration and agitation.
original_answer: **Answer:** 74/50	9m Hg
new_answer: 74/50	9m Hg
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin, and at the time of initial ED presentation, when she was hypotensive and hypoxaemic, her non-invasive blood pressure was **Answer:** 74/50	9m Hg.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin. At the time of initial ED presentation, when she was hypotensive and hypoxaemic, her non-invasive blood pressure was 74/50	9m Hg.

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her vital signs at initial ED presentation showed hypotension and hypoxaemia (non-invasive blood pressure: 74/50 mm Hg, peripheral oxygen saturation 88% at room air, respiratory rate 22 breaths per minute), with initial clinical examination showing facial swelling, new-onset generalised erythema and urticaria over her entire body and increased transpiration and agitation.
original_answer: **Answer:** 88% at room air
new_answer: 88% at room air
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin, and at her initial ED assessment, when her vital signs showed hypotension and hypoxaemia, her peripheral oxygen saturation at room air on that initial presentation was **Answer:** 88% at room air.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin. At her initial ED assessment, when her vital signs showed hypotension and hypoxaemia, her peripheral oxygen saturation at room air on that initial presentation was 88% at room air.

----- Row 32 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She promptly received care for a suspected severe allergic reaction, consisting of intramuscular injection of 0.3 mg epinephrine via auto-injector and slow intravenous injection of 2 mg clemastine, for treatment of the skin reaction following local guidelines.
original_answer: 2 mg clemastine
new_answer: 2 mg clemastine
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with suspected severe allergic reaction after taking oral clarithromycin, and as part of the initial treatment for her skin reaction, she was given 2 mg clemastine by slow intravenous injection.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with suspected severe allergic reaction after taking oral clarithromycin, and as part of the initial treatment for her skin reaction, she was given 2 mg clemastine.

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Supplementary oxygen could be stopped again after good clinical response to epinephrine injection; however, it had to be temporarily restarted during subsequent anaphylactic episodes.
original_answer: epinephrine injection
new_answer: epinephrine injection
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman with clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis initially no longer needed supplementary oxygen after showing a good clinical response to epinephrine injection, before oxygen had to be restarted during later anaphylactic episodes.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the woman with clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis initially no longer needed supplementary oxygen after showing a good clinical response, before oxygen had to be restarted during later anaphylactic episodes, following epinephrine injection.

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Clarithromycin was discontinued with no additional doses taken beyond the single initial dose of 500 mg orally.
original_answer: **Answer:** 500 mg
new_answer: 500 mg
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin, the drug was then discontinued with no further doses given, and the amount of her single initial oral clarithromycin dose was **Answer:** 500 mg.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s developed anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin. The drug was then discontinued with no further doses given, and her single initial oral clarithromycin dose was 500 mg.

----- Row 35 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Initially, a good response to this therapy was observed, with blood pressure returning to normal levels and facial swelling as well as redness decreasing.
original_answer: **Answer:** normal levels
new_answer: normal levels
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s was treated in the emergency department for anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin, and after the initial therapy her facial swelling and redness improved and her blood pressure returned to **Answer:** normal levels.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s was treated in the emergency department for anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin. After the initial therapy, her facial swelling and redness improved, and her blood pressure returned to normal levels.

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Initially, a good response to this therapy was observed, with blood pressure returning to normal levels and facial swelling as well as redness decreasing.
original_answer: **Answer:** facial swelling as well as redness
new_answer: facial swelling as well as redness
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after a woman in her 60s developed anaphylaxis following her first oral dose of clarithromycin and was treated in the emergency department with epinephrine, clemastine, oxygen, and intravenous fluids, with her blood pressure returning to normal, the physical findings that decreased at that point were **Answer:** facial swelling as well as redness
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed anaphylaxis following her first oral dose of clarithromycin and was treated in the emergency department with epinephrine, clemastine, oxygen, and intravenous fluids. After her blood pressure returned to normal, the physical findings that decreased were facial swelling as well as redness.

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient was admitted to the acute internal ward, where increased monitoring by specialised nursing staff is provided, though without telemetry control.
original_answer: "the acute internal ward"
new_answer: the acute internal ward
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the woman in her 60s initially improved from anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin and was transferred to a hospital unit for increased monitoring by specialised nursing staff without telemetry control, she was admitted to "the acute internal ward".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s initially improved from anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin and was transferred to a hospital unit for increased monitoring by specialised nursing staff without telemetry control. She was then admitted to the acute internal ward.

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, despite an initial good response, the patient developed recurrent episodes of symptoms fitting anaphylactic shock within the first 12 hours of admission.
original_answer: "anaphylactic shock"
new_answer: anaphylactic shock
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", despite an initial good response to treatment for clarithromycin-triggered anaphylaxis, the recurrent episodes during the first 12 hours of admission fit "anaphylactic shock".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", despite an initial good response to treatment for clarithromycin-triggered anaphylaxis, the recurrent episodes during the first 12 hours of admission were consistent with anaphylactic shock.

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) after the first relapse of anaphylactic shock for further monitoring.
original_answer: "further monitoring"
new_answer: further monitoring
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after an initial response to treatment and a first relapse of anaphylactic shock within the first 12 hours of admission, the woman in her 60s was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for "further monitoring"
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after an initial response to treatment and a first relapse of anaphylactic shock within the first 12 hours of admission, the woman in her 60s was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for further monitoring.

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Each episode required intramuscular administration of epinephrine to resolve (figure 1) with a total of four anaphylactic episodes including the primary ED presentation.
original_answer: four anaphylactic episodes
new_answer: four anaphylactic episodes
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient had a total of four anaphylactic episodes, counting the primary emergency department presentation for clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis, four anaphylactic episodes.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient had four episodes in total, including the primary emergency department presentation for clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis, four anaphylactic episodes.

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The first two epinephrine doses were administered by auto-injector containing 0.3 mg epinephrine intramuscularly and the second two doses were administered by individually prepared doses of 0.5 mg epinephrine intramuscularly.
original_answer: "0.3 mg"
new_answer: 0.3 mg
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the first two epinephrine auto-injector doses administered to the woman in her 60s after oral clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis each contained "0.3 mg".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the first two epinephrine auto-injector doses administered to the woman in her 60s after oral clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis each contained 0.3 mg.

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The first two epinephrine doses were administered by auto-injector containing 0.3 mg epinephrine intramuscularly and the second two doses were administered by individually prepared doses of 0.5 mg epinephrine intramuscularly.
original_answer: "0.5 mg"
new_answer: 0.5 mg
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s who developed recurrent anaphylactic episodes after taking clarithromycin and required four intramuscular epinephrine doses in total received the later two individually prepared doses as "0.5 mg".
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s who developed recurrent anaphylactic episodes after taking clarithromycin and required four intramuscular epinephrine doses in total received the later two individually prepared doses as 0.5 mg.

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Though the dosage of the auto-injectors available at our clinic is lower than the recommended 0.5 mg, the use of auto-injectors is our preferred method in time-sensitive settings (as during the initial stabilisation of a new patient on the ED) or in settings where emergency treatments, such as for anaphylaxis, are not highly routine and where hesitancy due to unfamiliar medication might otherwise delay treatment.
original_answer: **Answer:** 0.5 mg
new_answer: 0.5 mg
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors describe the recommended epinephrine dose for time-sensitive situations such as initial stabilization in the emergency department or other settings where anaphylaxis treatment is not routine, despite the clinic’s auto-injectors containing a lower dose, as **Answer:** 0.5 mg.
new_statement: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the authors recommend an epinephrine dose for time-sensitive situations such as initial stabilization in the emergency department or other settings where anaphylaxis treatment is not routine, despite the clinic’s auto-injectors containing a lower dose of 0.5 mg

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Though the dosage of the auto-injectors available at our clinic is lower than the recommended 0.5 mg, the use of auto-injectors is our preferred method in time-sensitive settings (as during the initial stabilisation of a new patient on the ED) or in settings where emergency treatments, such as for anaphylaxis, are not highly routine and where hesitancy due to unfamiliar medication might otherwise delay treatment.
original_answer: **Answer:** auto-injectors
new_answer: auto-injectors
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", although the auto-injector dose at their clinic is lower than the recommended 0.5 mg, the authors still prefer a particular method for giving epinephrine in time-sensitive situations, such as the initial stabilization of a new patient in the emergency department or when staff may be unfamiliar with emergency medications, **Answer:** auto-injectors
new_statement: Although the dose at their clinic is lower than the recommended 0.5 mg, the authors still prefer a particular method for giving epinephrine in time-sensitive situations, such as the initial stabilization of a new patient in the emergency department or when staff may be unfamiliar with emergency medications: auto-injectors.

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Treatment was supplemented by corticosteroids after the first recurrence of anaphylaxis, due to the traditional role of corticosteroids in the prevention of biphasic anaphylaxis.
original_answer: **Answer:** corticosteroids
new_answer: corticosteroids
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the first recurrence of anaphylaxis following the initial response to epinephrine for clarithromycin-triggered anaphylaxis, the treatment added because of its traditional role in preventing biphasic anaphylaxis was **Answer:** corticosteroids
new_statement: After the first recurrence of anaphylaxis following the initial response to epinephrine for clarithromycin-triggered anaphylaxis, the treatment added because of its traditional role in preventing biphasic anaphylaxis was corticosteroids.

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She received both 30 mg of prednisone intravenously daily for 5 days as well as 8 mg of dexamethasone intravenously once, due to differences in recommendations in our hospital’s general ward anaphylaxis protocol and intensive care anaphylaxis protocol.
original_answer: **Answer:** 30 mg
new_answer: 30 mg
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis episodes and during corticosteroid treatment, she received intravenous prednisone at a daily dose of 30 mg for 5 days.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis episodes and during corticosteroid treatment, she received intravenous prednisone for 5 days at a daily dose of 30 mg.

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She received both 30 mg of prednisone intravenously daily for 5 days as well as 8 mg of dexamethasone intravenously once, due to differences in recommendations in our hospital’s general ward anaphylaxis protocol and intensive care anaphylaxis protocol.
original_answer: **Answer:** 8 mg
new_answer: 8 mg
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient's recurrent anaphylaxis was treated with corticosteroids, she received prednisone given daily for 5 days and a single intravenous dexamethasone dose of **Answer:** 8 mg
new_statement: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting”, after the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis was treated with corticosteroids, she received prednisone daily for 5 days and a single intravenous dexamethasone dose of 8 mg.

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Interestingly, the intensity of symptoms lessened with each episode of anaphylaxis, ranging from deep hypoxaemia with cyanosis, hypotension and severe dyspnoea at first to dyspnoea, recurrence of rash and pruritus during the last episode.
original_answer: severe dyspnoea
new_answer: severe dyspnoea
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during the first anaphylactic episode, the patient had deep hypoxaemia, cyanosis, hypotension, and severe respiratory symptom of severe dyspnoea.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during the first anaphylactic episode, the patient had deep hypoxaemia, cyanosis, hypotension, and severe dyspnoea.

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, continuous administration of epinephrine via intravenous pump was considered, pre-emptively treating anaphylaxis instead of waiting for symptom recurrence.
original_answer: epinephrine
new_answer: epinephrine
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", when the allergy team discussed treatment options for a woman in her 60s who developed multiphasic anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin, they considered continuous administration via an intravenous pump to pre-empt recurrent anaphylaxis with epinephrine.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the allergy team discussed continuous administration via an intravenous pump to pre-empt recurrent anaphylaxis in a woman in her 60s using epinephrine.

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Alternatively, in light of the slowly decreasing symptom intensity, an expectant approach was considered to see if symptoms would resolve spontaneously.
original_answer: an expectant approach
new_answer: an expectant approach
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes showed slowly decreasing symptom intensity, an expectant approach was considered to see whether the symptoms would resolve spontaneously.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes showed slowly decreasing symptom intensity, the team chose an expectant approach.

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Ultimately, neither treatment approach was necessary as the patient did not show further symptom relapse after this point.
original_answer: "further symptom relapse"
new_answer: further symptom relapse
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient's multiple anaphylactic episodes following the initial clarithromycin reaction and while the care team was considering further treatment options, the patient did not show "further symptom relapse".
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient's multiple anaphylactic episodes following the initial clarithromycin reaction and while the care team was considering further treatment options, the patient did not show further symptom relapse.

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After approximately 24 hours without renewed anaphylaxis, she was transferred back to a standard care ward.
original_answer: approximately 24 hours
new_answer: approximately 24 hours
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes had stopped, she had gone without any renewed anaphylaxis for approximately 24 hours before being transferred back to a standard care ward.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes had stopped, and she remained without any renewed anaphylaxis before being transferred back to a standard care ward for approximately 24 hours.

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was started on the antihistamine levocetirizine as a new standard medication and given and taught to use an epinephrine auto-injector (0.3 mg).
original_answer: **Answer:** levocetirizine
new_answer: levocetirizine
original_statement: After the patient’s hospitalization for multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, the antihistamine started as her new standard medication was **Answer:** levocetirizine.
new_statement: After the patient’s hospitalization for multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, the antihistamine started as her new standard medication was levocetirizine.

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was started on the antihistamine levocetirizine as a new standard medication and given and taught to use an epinephrine auto-injector (0.3 mg).
original_answer: **Answer:** 0.3 mg
new_answer: 0.3 mg
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s hospital course was completed and she was started on levocetirizine as a new standard medication, she was given an epinephrine auto-injector dose of **Answer:** 0.3 mg and taught to use it.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s hospital course was completed and she was started on levocetirizine as a new standard medication, she was taught to use an epinephrine auto-injector dose of 0.3 mg.

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to the atypical and prolonged clinical course, further analysis into underlying causes was instigated.
original_answer: further analysis into underlying causes
new_answer: further analysis into underlying causes
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", because the patient had an atypical and prolonged clinical course after recurrent anaphylactic episodes, further analysis into underlying causes was instigated.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient had an atypical and prolonged clinical course after recurrent anaphylactic episodes. This prompted further analysis into underlying causes.

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This analysis revealed a high probability of systemic mastocytosis, which, however, did not conform to the requirements of a formal diagnosis (only two WHO minor criteria, major criteria not assessable due to limited material obtained in the bone marrow biopsy, see figure 2).
original_answer: **Answer:** two WHO minor criteria
new_answer: two WHO minor criteria
original_statement: Further analysis performed because of the patient’s atypical and prolonged anaphylactic course suggested a high probability of systemic mastocytosis but did not meet the requirements for a formal diagnosis, and the evaluation found **Answer:** two WHO minor criteria.
new_statement: Further analysis performed because of the patient’s atypical and prolonged anaphylactic course suggested a high probability of systemic mastocytosis but did not meet the requirements for a formal diagnosis, and the evaluation found two WHO minor criteria.

----- Row 57 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Tryptase levels during the third anaphylactic episode, as well as baseline tryptase levels, were increased and remained increased during follow-up via the allergologist, as shown in table 1.
original_answer: "third anaphylactic episode"
new_answer: third anaphylactic episode
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient's tryptase levels measured during her recurrent anaphylactic episodes were increased during the "third anaphylactic episode".
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient's tryptase levels measured during her recurrent anaphylactic episodes were increased during the third anaphylactic episode.

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Tryptase levels during the third anaphylactic episode, as well as baseline tryptase levels, were increased and remained increased during follow-up via the allergologist, as shown in table 1.
original_answer: "the allergologist"
new_answer: the allergologist
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient's tryptase levels during the third anaphylactic episode and at baseline were increased and stayed elevated during follow-up, which occurred through the allergologist.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient's tryptase levels during the third anaphylactic episode and at baseline were increased and stayed elevated during follow-up, which was handled by the allergologist.

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Unfortunately, tryptase levels were not determined during the initial workup of the first anaphylactic episodes, meaning that the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation were not adhered to.
original_answer: "the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation"
new_answer: the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", because tryptase levels were not measured during the initial workup of the patient's first anaphylactic episodes, "the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation" were not adhered to in her evaluation.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", because tryptase levels were not measured during the initial workup of the patient's first anaphylactic episodes, her evaluation did not adhere to the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation.

----- Row 60 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Guidelines recommend a minimum of two, ideally three tryptase samples, taken at specific intervals.
original_answer: two
new_answer: two
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," where tryptase levels were not measured during the initial workup of the patient’s anaphylactic episodes, the guidelines they cite recommend a minimum of two tryptase samples taken at the specified intervals.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," where tryptase levels were not measured during the initial workup of the patient’s anaphylactic episodes, the guidelines they cite recommend a minimum number of tryptase samples taken at the specified intervals, two.

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Guidelines recommend a minimum of two, ideally three tryptase samples, taken at specific intervals.
original_answer: three
new_answer: three
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that guideline-recommended tryptase testing should include a minimum of two samples and, ideally, three samples taken at specific intervals.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that guideline-recommended tryptase testing should include a minimum of two samples. Ideally, the total should be three.

----- Row 62 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An initial sample is recommended as soon as feasible without delaying treatment, followed by a second sample 1–2 hours (but within 4 hours) of the onset of symptoms, when tryptase levels usually peak and a third sample taken a minimum of 24 hours after full clinical resolution to establish baseline tryptase levels.
original_answer: 1–2 hours (but within 4 hours)
new_answer: 1–2 hours (but within 4 hours)
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", guidelines for evaluating tryptase in anaphylaxis recommend a second blood sample after the onset of symptoms because tryptase levels usually peak at that time, and tryptase levels are usually highest 1–2 hours (but within 4 hours) after symptom onset.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", guidelines for evaluating tryptase in anaphylaxis recommend a second blood sample after the onset of symptoms because tryptase levels usually peak after symptom onset, at 1–2 hours (but within 4 hours).

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the case presented, the first tryptase sample was taken 1 hour after the third anaphylactic episode and the second sample was taken 27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis.
original_answer: "27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis"
new_answer: 27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis
original_statement: In the woman with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin in the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the second tryptase sample was obtained "27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis".
new_statement: In the woman with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin in the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the second tryptase sample was obtained 27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis.

----- Row 64 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis itself is a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis, characterised by the sudden onset and rapid progression of symptoms involving the airway, breathing, circulation and/or gastrointestinal tract and typically accompanied by cutaneous or mucosal manifestations such as urticaria, angioedema or flushing.
original_answer: **Answer:** "a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis"
new_answer: a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", in the discussion of anaphylaxis as a clinical entity, anaphylaxis is described as **Answer:** "a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," in the discussion of anaphylaxis as a clinical entity, anaphylaxis is described as a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis.

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis itself is a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis, characterised by the sudden onset and rapid progression of symptoms involving the airway, breathing, circulation and/or gastrointestinal tract and typically accompanied by cutaneous or mucosal manifestations such as urticaria, angioedema or flushing.
original_answer: **Answer:** "cutaneous or mucosal manifestations"
new_answer: cutaneous or mucosal manifestations
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis is described in the discussion as a clinical diagnosis with sudden onset and rapid progression of airway, breathing, circulation, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms that are typically accompanied by **Answer:** "cutaneous or mucosal manifestations".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis is described in the discussion as a clinical diagnosis with sudden onset and rapid progression of airway, breathing, circulation, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms that are typically accompanied by cutaneous or mucosal manifestations.

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While identification of a likely allergen supports the diagnosis, it is not always possible to determine a specific trigger.
original_answer: **Answer:** identification of a likely allergen
new_answer: identification of a likely allergen
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion notes that anaphylaxis is a clinical diagnosis and that, although the trigger cannot always be identified, one finding can support the diagnosis is **Answer:** identification of a likely allergen
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion notes that anaphylaxis is a clinical diagnosis and that, although the trigger cannot always be identified, one finding can support the diagnosis: identification of a likely allergen.

----- Row 67 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While identification of a likely allergen supports the diagnosis, it is not always possible to determine a specific trigger.
original_answer: **Answer:** a specific trigger
new_answer: a specific trigger
original_statement: In the discussion of anaphylaxis in the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", while identifying a likely allergen supports the diagnosis, it is not always possible to determine **Answer:** a specific trigger.
new_statement: In the discussion of anaphylaxis in the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", identifying a likely allergen supports the diagnosis, but it is not always possible to determine a specific trigger.

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Complex presentations, such as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis, are less well defined, although recent efforts have aimed to establish consensus definitions here as well.
original_answer: "biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis"
new_answer: biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion mentions examples of complex presentations that are less well defined as "biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion mentions examples of complex presentations that are less well defined as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis.

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Complex presentations, such as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis, are less well defined, although recent efforts have aimed to establish consensus definitions here as well.
original_answer: "consensus definitions"
new_answer: consensus definitions
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", complex anaphylaxis presentations such as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis are less well defined, although recent efforts have aimed to establish "consensus definitions" for these presentations
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", complex anaphylaxis presentations such as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis are less well defined, although recent efforts have aimed to establish consensus definitions.

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Resuscitation Council UK defines biphasic anaphylaxis as a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution in the absence of further allergen exposure.
original_answer: "a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution"
new_answer: a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors cite the Resuscitation Council UK definition of biphasic anaphylaxis, in which, assuming there is no further allergen exposure, the symptom pattern is "a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors cite the Resuscitation Council UK definition of biphasic anaphylaxis. Assuming there is no further allergen exposure, the symptom pattern is a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution.

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Refractory anaphylaxis, by contrast, refers to persistent anaphylaxis with no or insufficient response to correctly administered epinephrine.
original_answer: Refractory anaphylaxis
new_answer: Refractory anaphylaxis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", persistent anaphylaxis that does not respond, or responds only insufficiently, to correctly administered epinephrine is termed Refractory anaphylaxis.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the term used for this presentation is Refractory anaphylaxis.

----- Row 72 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that approximately half of biphasic reactions occur within 6–12 hours after the initial event, but neither provides a specific monitoring recommendation.
original_answer: "approximately half"
new_answer: approximately half
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", when discussing observation after biphasic anaphylaxis, the Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that biphasic reactions occur within 6–12 hours after the initial event in "approximately half".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline discuss observation after biphasic anaphylaxis. They note that biphasic reactions occur within 6–12 hours after the initial event in approximately half.

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that approximately half of biphasic reactions occur within 6–12 hours after the initial event, but neither provides a specific monitoring recommendation.
original_answer: "within 6–12 hours"
new_answer: within 6–12 hours
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that approximately half of biphasic reactions occur "within 6–12 hours" after the initial event.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that approximately half of biphasic reactions occur after the initial event within 6–12 hours.

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The UK guideline 2021, in contrast, does propose a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring.
original_answer: "UK guideline 2021"
new_answer: "UK guideline 2021"
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the guideline mentioned in contrast to the Dutch NHG and World Allergy Organisation guidance that proposes a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring is "UK guideline 2021".
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the guideline mentioned is "UK guideline 2021".

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The UK guideline 2021, in contrast, does propose a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring.
original_answer: "a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring"
new_answer: a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion notes that, in contrast to the Dutch NHG and World Allergy Organisation guidance, the UK guideline 2021 proposes "a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring".
new_statement: The discussion in the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting" notes that, in contrast to the Dutch NHG and World Allergy Organisation guidance, the UK guideline 2021 proposes a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring.

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consensus monitoring strategies are clearly needed to meet the challenge of balancing healthcare resources (large group of single episode anaphylaxis) with patient safety requirements (risk of complications in small and difficult to identify biphasic group).
original_answer: "Consensus monitoring strategies"
new_answer: Consensus monitoring strategies
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", clearly needed to balance healthcare resources for the large group of single-episode anaphylaxis cases with patient safety requirements for the smaller, difficult-to-identify biphasic group are "Consensus monitoring strategies".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the strategies needed to balance healthcare resources for the large group of single-episode anaphylaxis cases with patient safety requirements for the smaller, difficult-to-identify biphasic group are Consensus monitoring strategies.

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consensus monitoring strategies are clearly needed to meet the challenge of balancing healthcare resources (large group of single episode anaphylaxis) with patient safety requirements (risk of complications in small and difficult to identify biphasic group).
original_answer: "patient safety requirements"
new_answer: patient safety requirements
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors state that consensus monitoring strategies are needed to balance healthcare resources for the large group of patients with single-episode anaphylaxis against "patient safety requirements" related to the smaller, difficult-to-identify group with biphasic reactions.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors state that consensus monitoring strategies are needed to balance healthcare resources for the large group of patients with single-episode anaphylaxis and the smaller, difficult-to-identify group with biphasic reactions, while meeting patient safety requirements.

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Management of biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis largely mirrors standard anaphylaxis treatment, consisting of prompt intramuscular epinephrine combined with appropriate supportive care.
original_answer: appropriate supportive care
new_answer: appropriate supportive care
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis are generally managed with management that largely mirrors standard anaphylaxis treatment, including prompt intramuscular epinephrine combined with appropriate supportive care.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis are generally managed with treatment that largely mirrors standard anaphylaxis care. This includes prompt intramuscular epinephrine and appropriate supportive care.

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, it is striking to note that many auto-injectors, such as those used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in our presented case, contain only 0.3 mg of epinephrine, even if intended for use in adults.
original_answer: "0.3 mg of epinephrine"
new_answer: 0.3 mg of epinephrine
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that many auto-injectors used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in the presented adult patient contain "0.3 mg of epinephrine".
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that the auto-injectors used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in the presented adult patient contain 0.3 mg of epinephrine.

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Epinephrine auto-injectors play an essential role in the preclinical setting, but can be beneficial even in medical settings, as they can minimise treatment delay and reduce treatment hesitancy with personnel that only rarely comes in contact with vasoactive agents such as epinephrine.
original_answer: preclinical setting
new_answer: preclinical setting
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", epinephrine auto-injectors play an essential role in the preclinical setting, even though they can also be beneficial in medical settings by reducing treatment delay and hesitation among personnel who rarely use epinephrine.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", epinephrine auto-injectors play an essential role, even though they can also be beneficial in medical settings by reducing treatment delay and hesitation among personnel who rarely use epinephrine in the preclinical setting.

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Epinephrine auto-injectors play an essential role in the preclinical setting, but can be beneficial even in medical settings, as they can minimise treatment delay and reduce treatment hesitancy with personnel that only rarely comes in contact with vasoactive agents such as epinephrine.
original_answer: treatment delay
new_answer: treatment delay
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", epinephrine auto-injectors can minimize treatment delay in medical settings, where they may help reduce treatment hesitancy among personnel who rarely use epinephrine.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", epinephrine auto-injectors may help reduce treatment hesitancy among personnel who rarely use epinephrine in medical settings, which can lessen treatment delay.

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Traditionally, the use of corticosteroids was recommended, in part to prevent biphasic reactions.
original_answer: "biphasic reactions"
new_answer: biphasic reactions
original_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors note in their discussion that corticosteroids were traditionally recommended in part to prevent "biphasic reactions" associated with anaphylaxis.
new_statement: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors note in their discussion that corticosteroids were traditionally recommended in part to prevent biphasic reactions.

----- Row 83 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, mounting evidence demonstrates no benefit and even potential harmful effects, leading to a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis.
original_answer: no benefit
new_answer: no benefit
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", in the discussion of corticosteroid use for anaphylaxis, mounting evidence demonstrates no benefit of steroids in anaphylaxis.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion of corticosteroid use for anaphylaxis notes mounting evidence about steroids in anaphylaxis and reports no benefit.

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, mounting evidence demonstrates no benefit and even potential harmful effects, leading to a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis.
original_answer: a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis
new_answer: a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", mounting evidence has led to a change in practice regarding the use of steroids in anaphylaxis management: a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", mounting evidence has led to a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis.

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A 2017 systematic review examined 22 studies with only one of these studies supporting the use of corticosteroids and 21 studies showing no evidence that corticosteroids reduce the risk of biphasic anaphylaxis.
original_answer: one
new_answer: one
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a 2017 systematic review examined 22 studies about corticosteroids in anaphylaxis, and one of those studies supported the use of corticosteroids.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a 2017 systematic review examined 22 studies about corticosteroids in anaphylaxis, and the number of supportive studies was one.

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, recent studies emphasise the relevance of side effects, with one 2019 study even showing an increased likelihood of ICU/hospital ward admission after prehospital corticosteroid treatment.
original_answer: "ICU/hospital ward admission"
new_answer: ICU/hospital ward admission
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that recent studies raised concerns about corticosteroid side effects, and in one 2019 study, "ICU/hospital ward admission" was reported as being more likely after prehospital corticosteroid treatment.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors note that recent studies raised concerns about corticosteroid side effects, and in one 2019 study, prehospital corticosteroid treatment was associated with a higher likelihood of ICU/hospital ward admission.

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consequently, most contemporary guidelines advise against routine corticosteroid administration, although their use in clinical practice persists.
original_answer: routine corticosteroid administration
new_answer: routine corticosteroid administration
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", most contemporary guidelines advise against routine corticosteroid administration in the management of anaphylaxis, even though this practice still persists clinically.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", most contemporary guidelines advise against one intervention in the management of anaphylaxis. The intervention is routine corticosteroid administration.

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The absence of reliable predictors complicates risk stratification and monitoring decisions.
original_answer: monitoring decisions
new_answer: monitoring decisions
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors state that in biphasic anaphylaxis, the absence of reliable predictors makes it difficult to decide how to stratify risk and what monitoring decisions should be made about patient follow-up monitoring decisions.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors state that in biphasic anaphylaxis, the absence of reliable predictors makes it difficult to decide how to stratify risk and determine patient follow-up monitoring decisions.

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Suggested predictors include delayed epinephrine administration, severe initial presentation, multiple epinephrine doses and prior biphasic reactions.
original_answer: "delayed epinephrine administration"
new_answer: delayed epinephrine administration
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion of biphasic anaphylaxis notes several suggested predictors, including severe initial presentation, multiple epinephrine doses, and prior biphasic reactions, and the treatment-related factor specifically suggested as a predictor is "delayed epinephrine administration".
new_statement: In the discussion of biphasic anaphylaxis in the case report, several suggested predictors are noted. The treatment-related predictor specifically mentioned is delayed epinephrine administration.

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 1517 However, given the rarity of both conditions, to our knowledge, there is currently no research specifically addressing the role of systemic mastocytosis in biphasic anaphylaxis.
original_answer: systemic mastocytosis
new_answer: systemic mastocytosis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that because both conditions are rare, there is currently no research specifically addressing the role of systemic mastocytosis in biphasic anaphylaxis.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that because both conditions are rare, there is currently no research specifically addressing the role of systemic mastocytosis.

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 1517 However, given the rarity of both conditions, to our knowledge, there is currently no research specifically addressing the role of systemic mastocytosis in biphasic anaphylaxis.
original_answer: no research specifically addressing
new_answer: no research specifically addressing
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that systemic mastocytosis can predispose patients to severe anaphylaxis, but there is no research specifically addressing
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that systemic mastocytosis can predispose patients to severe anaphylaxis, but there is no research specifically addressing.

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Fortunately, anaphylaxis mortality is low, especially in regions with timely access to emergency medical care.
original_answer: emergency medical care
new_answer: emergency medical care
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis mortality is low, especially in regions with timely access to emergency medical care.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis mortality is low, especially in regions where prompt treatment is available through emergency medical care.

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, fatal outcomes of biphasic anaphylaxis are even rarer, despite their apparent inherent danger.
original_answer: biphasic anaphylaxis
new_answer: biphasic anaphylaxis
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion notes that fatal outcomes are even rarer for biphasic anaphylaxis, despite its apparent inherent danger.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion notes that fatal outcomes are even rarer for biphasic anaphylaxis.

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While initial emergency medical care is the focus of research and of guidelines, subsequent medical care and monitoring is of course also of great importance.
original_answer: "initial emergency medical care"
new_answer: initial emergency medical care
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", although subsequent medical care and monitoring are also important, research and guidelines focus on "initial emergency medical care" in anaphylaxis management.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", although subsequent medical care and monitoring are also important, research and guidelines focus on anaphylaxis management as initial emergency medical care.

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While initial emergency medical care is the focus of research and of guidelines, subsequent medical care and monitoring is of course also of great importance.
original_answer: "subsequent medical care and monitoring"
new_answer: subsequent medical care and monitoring
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that while initial emergency medical care is the focus of research and guidelines, "subsequent medical care and monitoring" is of great importance in the ongoing management of the patient.
new_statement: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the authors note that while initial emergency medical care is the focus of research and guidelines, attention to other aspects of ongoing patient management is also important, including subsequent medical care and monitoring

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis and the barriers inherent to research in emergency situations make the development of true evidence-based strategies a great challenge.
original_answer: "the development of true evidence-based strategies"
new_answer: the development of true evidence-based strategies
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis, together with the barriers inherent to research in emergency situations, make a great challenge "the development of true evidence-based strategies".
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis, together with the barriers inherent to research in emergency situations, make a major challenge: the development of true evidence-based strategies.

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis and the barriers inherent to research in emergency situations make the development of true evidence-based strategies a great challenge.
original_answer: "emergency situations"
new_answer: emergency situations
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that the rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis, together with the barriers inherent to research in "emergency situations", makes it difficult to develop evidence-based strategies.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that the rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis, together with the barriers inherent to research, makes it difficult to develop evidence-based strategies in emergency situations.

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Expert-based consensus guidelines with clear management recommendations are a deeply valuable option in such situations; however, the development of expert-based recommendations is also hampered by the lack of available data.
original_answer: expert-based consensus guidelines
new_answer: expert-based consensus guidelines
original_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that multiphasic anaphylaxis is rare and that there is a lack of available data, making expert-based consensus guidelines a deeply valuable option for these situations.
new_statement: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that multiphasic anaphylaxis is rare and that there is a lack of available data, so the best option is expert-based consensus guidelines.

