----- Row 0 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis, the most severe form of an allergic reaction, is a potentially life-threatening systemic reaction requiring prompt and effective management.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the abstract describes anaphylaxis as a potentially life-threatening systemic reaction that requires prompt and effective management and as the most severe form of an allergic reaction.
target:  an allergic reaction.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the abstract describes anaphylaxis as a potentially life-threatening systemic reaction that requires prompt and effective management and as the most severe form of

----- Row 1 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis, the most severe form of an allergic reaction, is a potentially life-threatening systemic reaction requiring prompt and effective management.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the abstract describes anaphylaxis as the most severe form of an allergic reaction and as a potentially life-threatening condition requiring prompt, effective management of the systemic reaction.
target:  systemic reaction.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the abstract describes anaphylaxis as the most severe form of an allergic reaction and as a potentially life-threatening condition requiring prompt, effective management of the

----- Row 2 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A subset of cases shows a recurrence of symptoms despite adequate care and full clinical response.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the abstract notes that anaphylaxis can have a subset of cases in which there is recurrence after adequate care and a full clinical response, and the recurrence may involve symptoms.
target:  symptoms.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the abstract notes that anaphylaxis can have a subset of cases in which there is recurrence after adequate care and a full clinical response, and the recurrence may involve

----- Row 3 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A subset of cases shows a recurrence of symptoms despite adequate care and full clinical response.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient had achieved full clinical response.
target:  full clinical response.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient had achieved

----- Row 4 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: These biphasic or even multiphasic courses provide a unique challenge for clinicians, especially as reported incidence varies, risk factors are unclear and clear management strategies are lacking in current guidelines.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that across different reports, there was variation in the reported incidence.
target:  reported incidence.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that across different reports, there was variation in the

----- Row 7 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This is especially true for multiphasic anaphylaxis presenting with multiple relapses into anaphylaxis despite adequate response to standard treatment with epinephrine.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," multiple relapses occurred despite an initial adequate response. The standard treatment mentioned for this multiphasic anaphylaxis was epinephrine.
target:  epinephrine.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," multiple relapses occurred despite an initial adequate response. The standard treatment mentioned for this multiphasic anaphylaxis was

----- Row 8 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this study, we present the case of a woman in her 60s presenting with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, with subsequent analysis showing a high likelihood of systemic mastocytosis, though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed multiphasic anaphylaxis after receiving this medication, clarithromycin.
target:  clarithromycin.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed multiphasic anaphylaxis after receiving this medication,

----- Row 9 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this study, we present the case of a woman in her 60s presenting with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, with subsequent analysis showing a high likelihood of systemic mastocytosis, though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", subsequent analysis in a woman in her 60s who presented with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin suggested a high likelihood of a mast cell disorder, even though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria for systemic mastocytosis.
target:  systemic mastocytosis.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", subsequent analysis in a woman in her 60s who presented with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin suggested a high likelihood of a mast cell disorder, even though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria for

----- Row 10 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis is a severe and—especially in anaphylactic shock—potentially life-threatening allergic reaction, and a common cause of presentation to emergency care.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," anaphylaxis is described in the background section as a severe and—especially in anaphylactic shock—potentially life-threatening allergic reaction.
target:  a severe and—especially in anaphylactic shock—potentially life-threatening allergic reaction.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," anaphylaxis is described in the background section as

----- Row 11 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis is a severe and—especially in anaphylactic shock—potentially life-threatening allergic reaction, and a common cause of presentation to emergency care.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis is described as a severe, potentially life-threatening allergic reaction, especially in anaphylactic shock, and it is also noted to be a common cause of presentation to emergency care.
target:  to emergency care.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis is described as a severe, potentially life-threatening allergic reaction, especially in anaphylactic shock, and it is also noted to be a common cause of presentation

----- Row 12 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, a subset of cases shows a biphasic or even multiphasic course, characterised by initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by resolution of symptoms, that is, an asymptomatic phase and then recurrence of symptoms without re-exposure to the allergen.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic course is described as an initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by resolution of symptoms, and before symptoms recur without re-exposure to the allergen, there is an asymptomatic phase.
target:  an asymptomatic phase.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic course is described as an initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by resolution of symptoms, and before symptoms recur without re-exposure to the allergen, there is

----- Row 13 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, a subset of cases shows a biphasic or even multiphasic course, characterised by initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by resolution of symptoms, that is, an asymptomatic phase and then recurrence of symptoms without re-exposure to the allergen.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic course is described as an initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by an asymptomatic phase, after which an additional episode occurs without re-exposure to the allergen, recurrence of symptoms.
target:  recurrence of symptoms.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic course is described as an initial anaphylactic reaction to a trigger, followed by an asymptomatic phase, after which an additional episode occurs without re-exposure to the allergen,

----- Row 14 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This reaction is usually observed within the first 24 hours after initial allergen exposure, but reports include symptom recurrence up to 78 hours later.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic reactions are usually observed after initial allergen exposure within the first 24 hours.
target:  within the first 24 hours.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that biphasic or multiphasic anaphylactic reactions are usually observed after initial allergen exposure

----- Row 15 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This reaction is usually observed within the first 24 hours after initial allergen exposure, but reports include symptom recurrence up to 78 hours later.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", multiphasic or biphasic anaphylactic reactions are usually seen within the first 24 hours after the initial allergen exposure, and in some reports symptom recurrence has been reported "up to 78 hours later".
target:  "up to 78 hours later".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", multiphasic or biphasic anaphylactic reactions are usually seen within the first 24 hours after the initial allergen exposure, and in some reports symptom recurrence has been reported

----- Row 16 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Reported incidence of biphasic anaphylaxis varies widely, ranging from 0.4% to 23.3%, though most data points towards an incidence between 4% and 6%.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the reported incidence of biphasic anaphylaxis in the literature has ranged from 0.4% to 23.3%
target:  0.4% to 23.3%
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the reported incidence of biphasic anaphylaxis in the literature has ranged from

----- Row 17 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Reported incidence of biphasic anaphylaxis varies widely, ranging from 0.4% to 23.3%, though most data points towards an incidence between 4% and 6%.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", most data suggest that the incidence range for biphasic anaphylaxis is 4% and 6%
target:  4% and 6%
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", most data suggest that the incidence range for biphasic anaphylaxis is

----- Row 18 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to the possibility of relapse, a period of observation after anaphylaxis is commonly advised even if symptoms initially resolve fully.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after anaphylaxis, because symptoms may relapse even if they initially resolve fully, the commonly advised approach is a period of observation.
target:  a period of observation.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after anaphylaxis, because symptoms may relapse even if they initially resolve fully, the commonly advised approach is

----- Row 19 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to the possibility of relapse, a period of observation after anaphylaxis is commonly advised even if symptoms initially resolve fully.
fact: According to the case report, a period of observation is commonly advised after symptoms initially resolve fully because of possible relapse in anaphylaxis.
target:  anaphylaxis.
probe: According to the case report, a period of observation is commonly advised after symptoms initially resolve fully because of possible relapse in

----- Row 20 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, definitions of biphasic anaphylaxis are at times inconsistent and treatment guidelines vary, with the role of corticosteroids being brought into question in recent years.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", where definitions of biphasic anaphylaxis are inconsistent and treatment guidelines vary, the aspect of management that has been brought into question in recent years for biphasic anaphylaxis is the role of corticosteroids.
target:  the role of corticosteroids.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", where definitions of biphasic anaphylaxis are inconsistent and treatment guidelines vary, the aspect of management that has been brought into question in recent years for biphasic anaphylaxis is

----- Row 21 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, definitions of biphasic anaphylaxis are at times inconsistent and treatment guidelines vary, with the role of corticosteroids being brought into question in recent years.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that definitions of biphasic anaphylaxis are inconsistent, and the aspect said to vary for biphasic anaphylaxis, especially given that the role of corticosteroids has been questioned in recent years, is treatment guidelines.
target:  treatment guidelines.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that definitions of biphasic anaphylaxis are inconsistent, and the aspect said to vary for biphasic anaphylaxis, especially given that the role of corticosteroids has been questioned in recent years, is

----- Row 22 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Multiphasic anaphylaxis, presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence, presents a special challenge with regard to treatment and observation protocols.
fact: According to the case report, the diagnosis was Multiphasic anaphylaxis.
target:  Multiphasic anaphylaxis.
probe: According to the case report, the diagnosis was

----- Row 23 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Multiphasic anaphylaxis, presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence, presents a special challenge with regard to treatment and observation protocols.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", multiphasic anaphylaxis, which is described as presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence, makes it a special challenge with regard to treatment and observation protocols.
target:  treatment and observation protocols.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", multiphasic anaphylaxis, which is described as presenting with multiple episodes of symptom recurrence, makes it a special challenge with regard to

----- Row 25 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In this study, we present the case of a woman in her 60s presenting with a multiphasic anaphylactic reaction to clarithromycin.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s had a multiphasic anaphylactic reaction that was attributed to clarithromycin.
target:  clarithromycin.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s had a multiphasic anaphylactic reaction that was attributed to

----- Row 26 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A woman in her 60s, with a known allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics, presented to the emergency department (ED) with anaphylaxis following oral clarithromycin 500 mg.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin 500 mg and already had a known allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics.
target:  beta-lactam antibiotics.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin 500 mg and already had a known allergy to

----- Row 27 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A woman in her 60s, with a known allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics, presented to the emergency department (ED) with anaphylaxis following oral clarithromycin 500 mg.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s with a known allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin at a dose of "500 mg".
target:  "500 mg".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s with a known allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin at a dose of

----- Row 28 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient’s medical history included diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, psoriasis and depression.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s had a medical history that included diabetes mellitus type 2.
target:  diabetes mellitus type 2.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s had a medical history that included

----- Row 29 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient’s medical history included diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, psoriasis and depression.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presenting with anaphylaxis had a past medical history that included diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, psoriasis, and depression.
target:  depression.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presenting with anaphylaxis had a past medical history that included diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, psoriasis, and

----- Row 30 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her medication in use was metformin (two times a day 500 mg), gliclazide (once daily 80 mg retard), hydrochlorothiazide (once daily 25 mg), omeprazole (once daily 20 mg) and sertraline (once daily 100 mg).
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s had a regular medication in her medical history taken at a dose of once daily 25 mg, which was hydrochlorothiazide.
target:  hydrochlorothiazide.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman in her 60s had a regular medication in her medical history taken at a dose of once daily 25 mg, which was

----- Row 31 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her medication in use was metformin (two times a day 500 mg), gliclazide (once daily 80 mg retard), hydrochlorothiazide (once daily 25 mg), omeprazole (once daily 20 mg) and sertraline (once daily 100 mg).
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman’s regular medications were listed as metformin 500 mg twice daily, gliclazide 80 mg retard once daily, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, omeprazole 20 mg once daily, and sertraline.
target:  sertraline.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman’s regular medications were listed as metformin 500 mg twice daily, gliclazide 80 mg retard once daily, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, omeprazole 20 mg once daily, and

----- Row 33 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her last dose of hydrochlorothiazide was taken in the morning, over 12 hours before ED presentation.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the woman in her 60s who presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin had last taken her once-daily hydrochlorothiazide before ED presentation, over 12 hours
target:  over 12 hours
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the woman in her 60s who presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin had last taken her once-daily hydrochlorothiazide before ED presentation,

----- Row 34 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient had presented with a mild allergic reaction to amoxicillin in her adolescence, which was limited to facial swelling without oropharyngeal swelling, rash, hypotension or dyspnoea, and furthermore had previously displayed a strong local skin reaction to a wasp sting, but without any systemic symptoms.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient's past history included a mild allergic reaction during adolescence that was limited to facial swelling and did not include oropharyngeal swelling, rash, hypotension, or dyspnoea, and it was caused by amoxicillin.
target:  amoxicillin.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient's past history included a mild allergic reaction during adolescence that was limited to facial swelling and did not include oropharyngeal swelling, rash, hypotension, or dyspnoea, and it was caused by

----- Row 36 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 5 days before ED presentation, she was prescribed clindamycin for erysipelas by her general practitioner.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin, and 5 days before that ED presentation her general practitioner had prescribed her treatment for erysipelas, clindamycin.
target:  clindamycin.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin, and 5 days before that ED presentation her general practitioner had prescribed her treatment for erysipelas,

----- Row 37 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 5 days before ED presentation, she was prescribed clindamycin for erysipelas by her general practitioner.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman had been prescribed clindamycin by her general practitioner 5 days before presenting to the emergency department for "erysipelas".
target:  "erysipelas".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman had been prescribed clindamycin by her general practitioner 5 days before presenting to the emergency department for

----- Row 38 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After 5 days of clindamycin use, she developed a (not further described) rash on her abdomen.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient developed a rash on her abdomen after clindamycin use for erysipelas, which had continued for 5 days.
target:  5 days.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient developed a rash on her abdomen after clindamycin use for erysipelas, which had continued for

----- Row 39 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After 5 days of clindamycin use, she developed a (not further described) rash on her abdomen.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," after taking clindamycin for 5 days for erysipelas before developing a rash, the rash appeared on her abdomen.
target:  her abdomen.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," after taking clindamycin for 5 days for erysipelas before developing a rash, the rash appeared on

----- Row 40 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This was interpreted as a late allergic reaction to clindamycin, for which her general practitioner switched the antibiotic regime to clarithromycin, to which she had had no previous exposure.
fact: The medication thought to have caused the late allergic reaction was clindamycin.
target:  clindamycin.
probe: The medication thought to have caused the late allergic reaction was

----- Row 41 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This was interpreted as a late allergic reaction to clindamycin, for which her general practitioner switched the antibiotic regime to clarithromycin, to which she had had no previous exposure.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," after a woman in her 60s developed a rash on her abdomen after 5 days of clindamycin for erysipelas, which was interpreted as a late allergic reaction, her general practitioner switched her antibiotic regimen to clarithromycin.
target:  clarithromycin.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," after a woman in her 60s developed a rash on her abdomen after 5 days of clindamycin for erysipelas, which was interpreted as a late allergic reaction, her general practitioner switched her antibiotic regimen to

----- Row 42 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She subsequently presented to ED with pruritus, flushing, increased transpiration, agitation and a feeling of swelling in her throat.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with pruritus, flushing, increased transpiration, and agitation after taking clarithromycin, and she reported in her throat "a feeling of swelling".
target:  "a feeling of swelling".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with pruritus, flushing, increased transpiration, and agitation after taking clarithromycin, and she reported in her throat

----- Row 43 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She subsequently presented to ED with pruritus, flushing, increased transpiration, agitation and a feeling of swelling in her throat.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department after taking oral clarithromycin with anaphylaxis symptoms including flushing, increased transpiration, agitation, and a feeling of throat swelling, and the skin symptom she presented with at the ED was "pruritus".
target:  "pruritus".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department after taking oral clarithromycin with anaphylaxis symptoms including flushing, increased transpiration, agitation, and a feeling of throat swelling, and the skin symptom she presented with at the ED was

----- Row 44 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Symptoms started 1 hour after oral intake of the first dose of clarithromycin, with symptoms worsening progressively over time.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed anaphylactic symptoms after taking her first oral dose of clarithromycin. Her symptoms started after oral intake of that first dose at 1 hour.
target:  1 hour.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed anaphylactic symptoms after taking her first oral dose of clarithromycin. Her symptoms started after oral intake of that first dose at

----- Row 45 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Symptoms started 1 hour after oral intake of the first dose of clarithromycin, with symptoms worsening progressively over time.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed symptoms 1 hour after taking the first oral dose of clarithromycin, and after the symptoms began, they were worsening progressively over time.
target:  worsening progressively over time.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed symptoms 1 hour after taking the first oral dose of clarithromycin, and after the symptoms began, they were

----- Row 46 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her vital signs at initial ED presentation showed hypotension and hypoxaemia (non-invasive blood pressure: 74/50 mm Hg, peripheral oxygen saturation 88% at room air, respiratory rate 22 breaths per minute), with initial clinical examination showing facial swelling, new-onset generalised erythema and urticaria over her entire body and increased transpiration and agitation.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin. At the time of initial ED presentation, when she was hypotensive and hypoxaemic, her non-invasive blood pressure was 74/50	9m Hg.
target:  74/50	9m Hg.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin. At the time of initial ED presentation, when she was hypotensive and hypoxaemic, her non-invasive blood pressure was

----- Row 47 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Her vital signs at initial ED presentation showed hypotension and hypoxaemia (non-invasive blood pressure: 74/50 mm Hg, peripheral oxygen saturation 88% at room air, respiratory rate 22 breaths per minute), with initial clinical examination showing facial swelling, new-onset generalised erythema and urticaria over her entire body and increased transpiration and agitation.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin. At her initial ED assessment, when her vital signs showed hypotension and hypoxaemia, her peripheral oxygen saturation at room air on that initial presentation was 88% at room air.
target:  88% at room air.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin. At her initial ED assessment, when her vital signs showed hypotension and hypoxaemia, her peripheral oxygen saturation at room air on that initial presentation was

----- Row 48 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: No swelling of the tongue or throat was observed and cardiac and lung auscultation was normal.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin, and on the initial examination the report noted the following regarding swelling of her tongue or throat: No swelling of the tongue or throat.
target:  No swelling of the tongue or throat.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin, and on the initial examination the report noted the following regarding swelling of her tongue or throat:

----- Row 49 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: No swelling of the tongue or throat was observed and cardiac and lung auscultation was normal.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", when the woman in her 60s was examined in the emergency department for anaphylaxis after her first oral dose of clarithromycin, no swelling of the tongue or throat was seen and her cardiac and lung auscultation was normal.
target:  normal.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", when the woman in her 60s was examined in the emergency department for anaphylaxis after her first oral dose of clarithromycin, no swelling of the tongue or throat was seen and her cardiac and lung auscultation was

----- Row 50 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She promptly received care for a suspected severe allergic reaction, consisting of intramuscular injection of 0.3 mg epinephrine via auto-injector and slow intravenous injection of 2 mg clemastine, for treatment of the skin reaction following local guidelines.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s who presented to the emergency department with suspected severe allergic reaction after taking oral clarithromycin for the first time received epinephrine via auto-injector during her initial ED treatment at a dose of 0.3 mg.
target:  0.3 mg.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s who presented to the emergency department with suspected severe allergic reaction after taking oral clarithromycin for the first time received epinephrine via auto-injector during her initial ED treatment at a dose of

----- Row 51 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She promptly received care for a suspected severe allergic reaction, consisting of intramuscular injection of 0.3 mg epinephrine via auto-injector and slow intravenous injection of 2 mg clemastine, for treatment of the skin reaction following local guidelines.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with suspected severe allergic reaction after taking oral clarithromycin, and as part of the initial treatment for her skin reaction, she was given 2 mg clemastine.
target:  2 mg clemastine.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s presented to the emergency department with suspected severe allergic reaction after taking oral clarithromycin, and as part of the initial treatment for her skin reaction, she was given

----- Row 52 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additionally, she received supplemental oxygen (15 L via non-rebreather mask) and 500 mL of normal saline (sodium chloride 0.9% solution) during initial stabilisation.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin received supplemental oxygen during initial stabilisation in the emergency department via non-rebreather mask at 15 L.
target:  15 L.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s with anaphylaxis after taking oral clarithromycin received supplemental oxygen during initial stabilisation in the emergency department via non-rebreather mask at

----- Row 53 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Additionally, she received supplemental oxygen (15 L via non-rebreather mask) and 500 mL of normal saline (sodium chloride 0.9% solution) during initial stabilisation.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during her initial stabilisation after presenting to the emergency department with anaphylaxis following clarithromycin, the woman in her 60s received supplemental oxygen and a 500 mL intravenous fluid bolus of normal saline (sodium chloride 0.9% solution).
target:  normal saline (sodium chloride 0.9% solution).
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during her initial stabilisation after presenting to the emergency department with anaphylaxis following clarithromycin, the woman in her 60s received supplemental oxygen and a 500 mL intravenous fluid bolus of

----- Row 54 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Supplementary oxygen could be stopped again after good clinical response to epinephrine injection; however, it had to be temporarily restarted during subsequent anaphylactic episodes.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the woman with clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis initially no longer needed supplementary oxygen after showing a good clinical response, before oxygen had to be restarted during later anaphylactic episodes, following epinephrine injection.
target:  epinephrine injection.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the woman with clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis initially no longer needed supplementary oxygen after showing a good clinical response, before oxygen had to be restarted during later anaphylactic episodes, following

----- Row 55 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Supplementary oxygen could be stopped again after good clinical response to epinephrine injection; however, it had to be temporarily restarted during subsequent anaphylactic episodes.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s with clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis initially improved after epinephrine and supplemental oxygen was stopped, but the clinicians had to temporarily restart the supplemental oxygen during subsequent anaphylactic episodes.
target:  subsequent anaphylactic episodes.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s with clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis initially improved after epinephrine and supplemental oxygen was stopped, but the clinicians had to temporarily restart the supplemental oxygen during

----- Row 56 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Clarithromycin was discontinued with no additional doses taken beyond the single initial dose of 500 mg orally.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s developed anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin. The drug was then discontinued with no further doses given, and her single initial oral clarithromycin dose was 500 mg.
target:  500 mg.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s developed anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin. The drug was then discontinued with no further doses given, and her single initial oral clarithromycin dose was

----- Row 58 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Initially, a good response to this therapy was observed, with blood pressure returning to normal levels and facial swelling as well as redness decreasing.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s was treated in the emergency department for anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin. After the initial therapy, her facial swelling and redness improved, and her blood pressure returned to normal levels.
target:  normal levels.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," a woman in her 60s was treated in the emergency department for anaphylaxis after taking clarithromycin. After the initial therapy, her facial swelling and redness improved, and her blood pressure returned to

----- Row 59 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Initially, a good response to this therapy was observed, with blood pressure returning to normal levels and facial swelling as well as redness decreasing.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed anaphylaxis following her first oral dose of clarithromycin and was treated in the emergency department with epinephrine, clemastine, oxygen, and intravenous fluids. After her blood pressure returned to normal, the physical findings that decreased were facial swelling as well as redness.
target:  facial swelling as well as redness.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed anaphylaxis following her first oral dose of clarithromycin and was treated in the emergency department with epinephrine, clemastine, oxygen, and intravenous fluids. After her blood pressure returned to normal, the physical findings that decreased were

----- Row 61 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient was admitted to the acute internal ward, where increased monitoring by specialised nursing staff is provided, though without telemetry control.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the woman in her 60s was admitted to the acute internal ward for closer nursing observation following her anaphylactic reaction to clarithromycin, the type of monitoring specifically not used there was "telemetry control".
target:  "telemetry control".
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the woman in her 60s was admitted to the acute internal ward for closer nursing observation following her anaphylactic reaction to clarithromycin, the type of monitoring specifically not used there was

----- Row 63 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, despite an initial good response, the patient developed recurrent episodes of symptoms fitting anaphylactic shock within the first 12 hours of admission.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", despite an initial good response to treatment for clarithromycin-triggered anaphylaxis, the recurrent episodes during the first 12 hours of admission were consistent with anaphylactic shock.
target:  anaphylactic shock.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", despite an initial good response to treatment for clarithromycin-triggered anaphylaxis, the recurrent episodes during the first 12 hours of admission were consistent with

----- Row 65 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) after the first relapse of anaphylactic shock for further monitoring.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after an initial response to treatment and a first relapse of anaphylactic shock within the first 12 hours of admission, the woman in her 60s was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for further monitoring.
target:  further monitoring.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after an initial response to treatment and a first relapse of anaphylactic shock within the first 12 hours of admission, the woman in her 60s was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for

----- Row 66 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Each episode required intramuscular administration of epinephrine to resolve (figure 1) with a total of four anaphylactic episodes including the primary ED presentation.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed recurrent anaphylactic episodes after taking clarithromycin, with four total episodes including the initial emergency department presentation, and each episode was resolved with intramuscular administration of epinephrine.
target:  intramuscular administration of epinephrine.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s developed recurrent anaphylactic episodes after taking clarithromycin, with four total episodes including the initial emergency department presentation, and each episode was resolved with

----- Row 68 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The first two epinephrine doses were administered by auto-injector containing 0.3 mg epinephrine intramuscularly and the second two doses were administered by individually prepared doses of 0.5 mg epinephrine intramuscularly.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the first two epinephrine auto-injector doses administered to the woman in her 60s after oral clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis each contained 0.3 mg.
target:  0.3 mg.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the first two epinephrine auto-injector doses administered to the woman in her 60s after oral clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis each contained

----- Row 69 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The first two epinephrine doses were administered by auto-injector containing 0.3 mg epinephrine intramuscularly and the second two doses were administered by individually prepared doses of 0.5 mg epinephrine intramuscularly.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s who developed recurrent anaphylactic episodes after taking clarithromycin and required four intramuscular epinephrine doses in total received the later two individually prepared doses as 0.5 mg.
target:  0.5 mg.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a woman in her 60s who developed recurrent anaphylactic episodes after taking clarithromycin and required four intramuscular epinephrine doses in total received the later two individually prepared doses as

----- Row 70 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Though the dosage of the auto-injectors available at our clinic is lower than the recommended 0.5 mg, the use of auto-injectors is our preferred method in time-sensitive settings (as during the initial stabilisation of a new patient on the ED) or in settings where emergency treatments, such as for anaphylaxis, are not highly routine and where hesitancy due to unfamiliar medication might otherwise delay treatment.
fact: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the authors recommend an epinephrine dose for time-sensitive situations such as initial stabilization in the emergency department or other settings where anaphylaxis treatment is not routine, despite the clinic’s auto-injectors containing a lower dose of 0.5 mg
target:  0.5 mg
probe: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the authors recommend an epinephrine dose for time-sensitive situations such as initial stabilization in the emergency department or other settings where anaphylaxis treatment is not routine, despite the clinic’s auto-injectors containing a lower dose of

----- Row 71 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Though the dosage of the auto-injectors available at our clinic is lower than the recommended 0.5 mg, the use of auto-injectors is our preferred method in time-sensitive settings (as during the initial stabilisation of a new patient on the ED) or in settings where emergency treatments, such as for anaphylaxis, are not highly routine and where hesitancy due to unfamiliar medication might otherwise delay treatment.
fact: Although the dose at their clinic is lower than the recommended 0.5 mg, the authors still prefer a particular method for giving epinephrine in time-sensitive situations, such as the initial stabilization of a new patient in the emergency department or when staff may be unfamiliar with emergency medications: auto-injectors.
target:  auto-injectors.
probe: Although the dose at their clinic is lower than the recommended 0.5 mg, the authors still prefer a particular method for giving epinephrine in time-sensitive situations, such as the initial stabilization of a new patient in the emergency department or when staff may be unfamiliar with emergency medications:

----- Row 73 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Treatment was supplemented by corticosteroids after the first recurrence of anaphylaxis, due to the traditional role of corticosteroids in the prevention of biphasic anaphylaxis.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", corticosteroids were added after the patient’s first recurrence of anaphylaxis because of their traditional role in preventing **Answer:** biphasic anaphylaxis.
target:  **Answer:** biphasic anaphylaxis.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", corticosteroids were added after the patient’s first recurrence of anaphylaxis because of their traditional role in preventing

----- Row 74 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She received both 30 mg of prednisone intravenously daily for 5 days as well as 8 mg of dexamethasone intravenously once, due to differences in recommendations in our hospital’s general ward anaphylaxis protocol and intensive care anaphylaxis protocol.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis episodes and during corticosteroid treatment, she received intravenous prednisone for 5 days at a daily dose of 30 mg.
target:  30 mg.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis episodes and during corticosteroid treatment, she received intravenous prednisone for 5 days at a daily dose of

----- Row 75 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She received both 30 mg of prednisone intravenously daily for 5 days as well as 8 mg of dexamethasone intravenously once, due to differences in recommendations in our hospital’s general ward anaphylaxis protocol and intensive care anaphylaxis protocol.
fact: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting”, after the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis was treated with corticosteroids, she received prednisone daily for 5 days and a single intravenous dexamethasone dose of 8 mg.
target:  8 mg.
probe: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting”, after the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis was treated with corticosteroids, she received prednisone daily for 5 days and a single intravenous dexamethasone dose of

----- Row 76 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, she received 2 mg of clemastine intravenously twice for treatment of cutaneous symptoms and an additional 500 mL of normal saline solution during the second episode of anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during the second episode of anaphylaxis, the patient received an intravenous medication twice to treat cutaneous symptoms, which was 2 mg of clemastine.
target:  2 mg of clemastine.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during the second episode of anaphylaxis, the patient received an intravenous medication twice to treat cutaneous symptoms, which was

----- Row 77 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, she received 2 mg of clemastine intravenously twice for treatment of cutaneous symptoms and an additional 500 mL of normal saline solution during the second episode of anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during the patient's second episode of anaphylaxis, she received intravenous clemastine for cutaneous symptoms and an additional bolus of normal saline solution of 500 mL.
target:  500 mL.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during the patient's second episode of anaphylaxis, she received intravenous clemastine for cutaneous symptoms and an additional bolus of normal saline solution of

----- Row 78 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Interestingly, the intensity of symptoms lessened with each episode of anaphylaxis, ranging from deep hypoxaemia with cyanosis, hypotension and severe dyspnoea at first to dyspnoea, recurrence of rash and pruritus during the last episode.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during the first anaphylactic episode, the patient had deep hypoxaemia, cyanosis, hypotension, and severe dyspnoea.
target:  severe dyspnoea.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", during the first anaphylactic episode, the patient had deep hypoxaemia, cyanosis, hypotension, and

----- Row 79 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Interestingly, the intensity of symptoms lessened with each episode of anaphylaxis, ranging from deep hypoxaemia with cyanosis, hypotension and severe dyspnoea at first to dyspnoea, recurrence of rash and pruritus during the last episode.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman experienced multiple anaphylactic episodes after her initial emergency department presentation with clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis, and during the last episode she had recurrence of rash.
target:  recurrence of rash.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the woman experienced multiple anaphylactic episodes after her initial emergency department presentation with clarithromycin-induced anaphylaxis, and during the last episode she had

----- Row 80 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, continuous administration of epinephrine via intravenous pump was considered, pre-emptively treating anaphylaxis instead of waiting for symptom recurrence.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the allergy team discussed continuous administration via an intravenous pump to pre-empt recurrent anaphylaxis in a woman in her 60s using epinephrine.
target:  epinephrine.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the allergy team discussed continuous administration via an intravenous pump to pre-empt recurrent anaphylaxis in a woman in her 60s using

----- Row 81 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: First, continuous administration of epinephrine via intravenous pump was considered, pre-emptively treating anaphylaxis instead of waiting for symptom recurrence.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", when the team considered a pre-emptive treatment strategy for the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis, continuous administration of epinephrine was proposed via intravenous pump.
target:  via intravenous pump.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", when the team considered a pre-emptive treatment strategy for the patient’s recurrent anaphylaxis, continuous administration of epinephrine was proposed

----- Row 82 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Alternatively, in light of the slowly decreasing symptom intensity, an expectant approach was considered to see if symptoms would resolve spontaneously.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes showed slowly decreasing symptom intensity, the team chose an expectant approach.
target:  an expectant approach.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes showed slowly decreasing symptom intensity, the team chose

----- Row 84 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Ultimately, neither treatment approach was necessary as the patient did not show further symptom relapse after this point.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes stopped and no further relapse occurred, what the care team ultimately considered unnecessary was "neither treatment approach".
target:  "neither treatment approach".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes stopped and no further relapse occurred, what the care team ultimately considered unnecessary was

----- Row 85 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Ultimately, neither treatment approach was necessary as the patient did not show further symptom relapse after this point.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient's multiple anaphylactic episodes following the initial clarithromycin reaction and while the care team was considering further treatment options, the patient did not show further symptom relapse.
target:  further symptom relapse.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient's multiple anaphylactic episodes following the initial clarithromycin reaction and while the care team was considering further treatment options, the patient did not show

----- Row 86 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After approximately 24 hours without renewed anaphylaxis, she was transferred back to a standard care ward.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes had stopped, and she remained without any renewed anaphylaxis before being transferred back to a standard care ward for approximately 24 hours.
target:  approximately 24 hours.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient’s recurrent anaphylactic episodes had stopped, and she remained without any renewed anaphylaxis before being transferred back to a standard care ward for

----- Row 87 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: After approximately 24 hours without renewed anaphylaxis, she was transferred back to a standard care ward.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient had gone approximately 24 hours without renewed anaphylaxis, she was transferred back to a standard care ward.
target:  a standard care ward.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient had gone approximately 24 hours without renewed anaphylaxis, she was transferred back to

----- Row 88 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was started on the antihistamine levocetirizine as a new standard medication and given and taught to use an epinephrine auto-injector (0.3 mg).
fact: After the patient’s hospitalization for multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, the antihistamine started as her new standard medication was levocetirizine.
target:  levocetirizine.
probe: After the patient’s hospitalization for multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, the antihistamine started as her new standard medication was

----- Row 89 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: She was started on the antihistamine levocetirizine as a new standard medication and given and taught to use an epinephrine auto-injector (0.3 mg).
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s hospital course was completed and she was started on levocetirizine as a new standard medication, she was taught to use an epinephrine auto-injector dose of 0.3 mg.
target:  0.3 mg.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s hospital course was completed and she was started on levocetirizine as a new standard medication, she was taught to use an epinephrine auto-injector dose of

----- Row 90 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to the atypical and prolonged clinical course, further analysis into underlying causes was instigated.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", clinicians instigated further analysis into underlying causes after the patient’s anaphylactic episode because of an atypical and prolonged clinical course.
target:  atypical and prolonged clinical course.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", clinicians instigated further analysis into underlying causes after the patient’s anaphylactic episode because of an

----- Row 91 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Due to the atypical and prolonged clinical course, further analysis into underlying causes was instigated.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient had an atypical and prolonged clinical course after recurrent anaphylactic episodes. This prompted further analysis into underlying causes.
target:  further analysis into underlying causes.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient had an atypical and prolonged clinical course after recurrent anaphylactic episodes. This prompted

----- Row 92 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This analysis revealed a high probability of systemic mastocytosis, which, however, did not conform to the requirements of a formal diagnosis (only two WHO minor criteria, major criteria not assessable due to limited material obtained in the bone marrow biopsy, see figure 2).
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s atypical and prolonged anaphylactic course was analyzed further, the condition found to have a high probability even though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria was **Answer:** systemic mastocytosis.
target:  **Answer:** systemic mastocytosis.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the patient’s atypical and prolonged anaphylactic course was analyzed further, the condition found to have a high probability even though she did not meet formal diagnostic criteria was

----- Row 93 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: This analysis revealed a high probability of systemic mastocytosis, which, however, did not conform to the requirements of a formal diagnosis (only two WHO minor criteria, major criteria not assessable due to limited material obtained in the bone marrow biopsy, see figure 2).
fact: Further analysis performed because of the patient’s atypical and prolonged anaphylactic course suggested a high probability of systemic mastocytosis but did not meet the requirements for a formal diagnosis, and the evaluation found two WHO minor criteria.
target:  two WHO minor criteria.
probe: Further analysis performed because of the patient’s atypical and prolonged anaphylactic course suggested a high probability of systemic mastocytosis but did not meet the requirements for a formal diagnosis, and the evaluation found

----- Row 94 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Tryptase levels during the third anaphylactic episode, as well as baseline tryptase levels, were increased and remained increased during follow-up via the allergologist, as shown in table 1.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient's tryptase levels measured during her recurrent anaphylactic episodes were increased during the third anaphylactic episode.
target:  third anaphylactic episode.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient's tryptase levels measured during her recurrent anaphylactic episodes were increased during the

----- Row 95 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Tryptase levels during the third anaphylactic episode, as well as baseline tryptase levels, were increased and remained increased during follow-up via the allergologist, as shown in table 1.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient's tryptase levels during the third anaphylactic episode and at baseline were increased and stayed elevated during follow-up, which was handled by the allergologist.
target:  the allergologist.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the patient's tryptase levels during the third anaphylactic episode and at baseline were increased and stayed elevated during follow-up, which was handled by

----- Row 96 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Unfortunately, tryptase levels were not determined during the initial workup of the first anaphylactic episodes, meaning that the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation were not adhered to.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors noted that tryptase levels were not determined during "the initial workup of the first anaphylactic episodes".
target:  "the initial workup of the first anaphylactic episodes".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors noted that tryptase levels were not determined during

----- Row 97 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Unfortunately, tryptase levels were not determined during the initial workup of the first anaphylactic episodes, meaning that the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation were not adhered to.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", because tryptase levels were not measured during the initial workup of the patient's first anaphylactic episodes, her evaluation did not adhere to the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation.
target:  the recommended intervals for tryptase level evaluation.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", because tryptase levels were not measured during the initial workup of the patient's first anaphylactic episodes, her evaluation did not adhere to

----- Row 98 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Guidelines recommend a minimum of two, ideally three tryptase samples, taken at specific intervals.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," where tryptase levels were not measured during the initial workup of the patient’s anaphylactic episodes, the guidelines they cite recommend a minimum number of tryptase samples taken at the specified intervals, two.
target:  two.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," where tryptase levels were not measured during the initial workup of the patient’s anaphylactic episodes, the guidelines they cite recommend a minimum number of tryptase samples taken at the specified intervals,

----- Row 99 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Guidelines recommend a minimum of two, ideally three tryptase samples, taken at specific intervals.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that guideline-recommended tryptase testing should include a minimum of two samples. Ideally, the total should be three.
target:  three.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that guideline-recommended tryptase testing should include a minimum of two samples. Ideally, the total should be

----- Row 100 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An initial sample is recommended as soon as feasible without delaying treatment, followed by a second sample 1–2 hours (but within 4 hours) of the onset of symptoms, when tryptase levels usually peak and a third sample taken a minimum of 24 hours after full clinical resolution to establish baseline tryptase levels.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", guidelines for evaluating tryptase in anaphylaxis recommend a second blood sample after the onset of symptoms because tryptase levels usually peak after symptom onset, at 1–2 hours (but within 4 hours).
target:  1–2 hours (but within 4 hours).
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", guidelines for evaluating tryptase in anaphylaxis recommend a second blood sample after the onset of symptoms because tryptase levels usually peak after symptom onset, at

----- Row 101 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: An initial sample is recommended as soon as feasible without delaying treatment, followed by a second sample 1–2 hours (but within 4 hours) of the onset of symptoms, when tryptase levels usually peak and a third sample taken a minimum of 24 hours after full clinical resolution to establish baseline tryptase levels.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", guidelines for tryptase testing in anaphylaxis recommend an initial sample as soon as feasible, a second sample 1–2 hours after symptom onset (within 4 hours), and a third sample to establish baseline tryptase levels a minimum of 24 hours after full clinical resolution.
target:  a minimum of 24 hours after full clinical resolution.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", guidelines for tryptase testing in anaphylaxis recommend an initial sample as soon as feasible, a second sample 1–2 hours after symptom onset (within 4 hours), and a third sample to establish baseline tryptase levels

----- Row 102 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the case presented, the first tryptase sample was taken 1 hour after the third anaphylactic episode and the second sample was taken 27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the first tryptase sample was taken "1 hour after the third anaphylactic episode".
target:  "1 hour after the third anaphylactic episode".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the first tryptase sample was taken

----- Row 103 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: In the case presented, the first tryptase sample was taken 1 hour after the third anaphylactic episode and the second sample was taken 27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis.
fact: In the woman with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin in the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the second tryptase sample was obtained 27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis.
target:  27 hours after the last recurrence of anaphylaxis.
probe: In the woman with multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin in the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the second tryptase sample was obtained

----- Row 104 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: No allergy confirmation test was performed, as risking renewed serious anaphylaxis through, for example, skin testing was not deemed proportional, underpinned by the relative ease with which further exposure can be avoided.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the woman’s multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, a test was not performed because the team felt that provoking renewed serious anaphylaxis—for example, through skin testing—was not proportionate and that further exposure could be avoided easily: "allergy confirmation test".
target:  "allergy confirmation test".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", after the woman’s multiphasic anaphylaxis to clarithromycin, a test was not performed because the team felt that provoking renewed serious anaphylaxis—for example, through skin testing—was not proportionate and that further exposure could be avoided easily:

----- Row 105 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: No allergy confirmation test was performed, as risking renewed serious anaphylaxis through, for example, skin testing was not deemed proportional, underpinned by the relative ease with which further exposure can be avoided.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", skin testing was not done after the patient’s multiphasic anaphylactic reaction to clarithromycin because it was considered to be "risking renewed serious anaphylaxis".
target:  "risking renewed serious anaphylaxis".
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", skin testing was not done after the patient’s multiphasic anaphylactic reaction to clarithromycin because it was considered to be

----- Row 106 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Further relevant findings which are in line with systemic mastocytosis included hepatomegaly in abdominal sonography and possible neuropsychiatric symptoms including depression and memory problems.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", further evaluation after the patient’s prolonged anaphylactic course found additional features in line with systemic mastocytosis, and abdominal sonography reported hepatomegaly.
target:  hepatomegaly.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", further evaluation after the patient’s prolonged anaphylactic course found additional features in line with systemic mastocytosis, and abdominal sonography reported

----- Row 107 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Further relevant findings which are in line with systemic mastocytosis included hepatomegaly in abdominal sonography and possible neuropsychiatric symptoms including depression and memory problems.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient underwent further evaluation because of findings in line with systemic mastocytosis, and among the possible neuropsychiatric symptoms mentioned in that evaluation, the symptom noted alongside depression was memory problems.
target:  memory problems.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the patient underwent further evaluation because of findings in line with systemic mastocytosis, and among the possible neuropsychiatric symptoms mentioned in that evaluation, the symptom noted alongside depression was

----- Row 108 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis itself is a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis, characterised by the sudden onset and rapid progression of symptoms involving the airway, breathing, circulation and/or gastrointestinal tract and typically accompanied by cutaneous or mucosal manifestations such as urticaria, angioedema or flushing.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," in the discussion of anaphylaxis as a clinical entity, anaphylaxis is described as a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis.
target:  a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," in the discussion of anaphylaxis as a clinical entity, anaphylaxis is described as

----- Row 109 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Anaphylaxis itself is a fairly well-defined clinical diagnosis, characterised by the sudden onset and rapid progression of symptoms involving the airway, breathing, circulation and/or gastrointestinal tract and typically accompanied by cutaneous or mucosal manifestations such as urticaria, angioedema or flushing.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis is described in the discussion as a clinical diagnosis with sudden onset and rapid progression of airway, breathing, circulation, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms that are typically accompanied by cutaneous or mucosal manifestations.
target:  cutaneous or mucosal manifestations.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis is described in the discussion as a clinical diagnosis with sudden onset and rapid progression of airway, breathing, circulation, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms that are typically accompanied by

----- Row 110 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While identification of a likely allergen supports the diagnosis, it is not always possible to determine a specific trigger.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion notes that anaphylaxis is a clinical diagnosis and that, although the trigger cannot always be identified, one finding can support the diagnosis: identification of a likely allergen.
target:  identification of a likely allergen.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion notes that anaphylaxis is a clinical diagnosis and that, although the trigger cannot always be identified, one finding can support the diagnosis:

----- Row 111 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While identification of a likely allergen supports the diagnosis, it is not always possible to determine a specific trigger.
fact: In the discussion of anaphylaxis in the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", identifying a likely allergen supports the diagnosis, but it is not always possible to determine a specific trigger.
target:  a specific trigger.
probe: In the discussion of anaphylaxis in the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", identifying a likely allergen supports the diagnosis, but it is not always possible to determine

----- Row 112 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Complex presentations, such as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis, are less well defined, although recent efforts have aimed to establish consensus definitions here as well.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion mentions examples of complex presentations that are less well defined as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis.
target:  biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion mentions examples of complex presentations that are less well defined as

----- Row 113 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Complex presentations, such as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis, are less well defined, although recent efforts have aimed to establish consensus definitions here as well.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", complex anaphylaxis presentations such as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis are less well defined, although recent efforts have aimed to establish consensus definitions.
target:  consensus definitions.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", complex anaphylaxis presentations such as biphasic or refractory anaphylaxis are less well defined, although recent efforts have aimed to establish

----- Row 114 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Resuscitation Council UK defines biphasic anaphylaxis as a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution in the absence of further allergen exposure.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors cite the Resuscitation Council UK definition of biphasic anaphylaxis. Assuming there is no further allergen exposure, the symptom pattern is a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution.
target:  a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors cite the Resuscitation Council UK definition of biphasic anaphylaxis. Assuming there is no further allergen exposure, the symptom pattern is

----- Row 115 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Resuscitation Council UK defines biphasic anaphylaxis as a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution in the absence of further allergen exposure.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the Resuscitation Council UK defines biphasic anaphylaxis as a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution, but only if there is no "further allergen exposure".
target:  "further allergen exposure".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the Resuscitation Council UK defines biphasic anaphylaxis as a recurrence of symptoms several hours after apparent symptom resolution, but only if there is no

----- Row 116 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Differentiating true biphasic reactions from sustained anaphylaxis with transient response to epinephrine or ongoing allergen absorption (eg, from residual food or slow-release medication) can be challenging.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that true biphasic reactions can be challenging to distinguish from a type of anaphylaxis, especially when symptoms only briefly improve after epinephrine or when allergen absorption may still be ongoing: sustained anaphylaxis.
target:  sustained anaphylaxis.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that true biphasic reactions can be challenging to distinguish from a type of anaphylaxis, especially when symptoms only briefly improve after epinephrine or when allergen absorption may still be ongoing:

----- Row 117 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Differentiating true biphasic reactions from sustained anaphylaxis with transient response to epinephrine or ongoing allergen absorption (eg, from residual food or slow-release medication) can be challenging.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion notes that distinguishing true biphasic reactions from sustained anaphylaxis can be difficult because of ongoing allergen absorption, and one example given of a possible source of that ongoing allergen absorption was slow-release medication.
target:  slow-release medication.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion notes that distinguishing true biphasic reactions from sustained anaphylaxis can be difficult because of ongoing allergen absorption, and one example given of a possible source of that ongoing allergen absorption was

----- Row 118 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Refractory anaphylaxis, by contrast, refers to persistent anaphylaxis with no or insufficient response to correctly administered epinephrine.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the term used for this presentation is Refractory anaphylaxis.
target:  Refractory anaphylaxis.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the term used for this presentation is

----- Row 119 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Refractory anaphylaxis, by contrast, refers to persistent anaphylaxis with no or insufficient response to correctly administered epinephrine.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors distinguish refractory anaphylaxis from other complex anaphylaxis courses by describing it as persistent anaphylaxis with no or insufficient response to correctly administered epinephrine.
target:  correctly administered epinephrine.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors distinguish refractory anaphylaxis from other complex anaphylaxis courses by describing it as persistent anaphylaxis with no or insufficient response to

----- Row 120 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Guideline recommendations concerning biphasic anaphylaxis primarily address clinical monitoring.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", when the authors discuss guideline recommendations for biphasic anaphylaxis in the discussion section, those recommendations primarily address clinical monitoring.
target:  clinical monitoring.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", when the authors discuss guideline recommendations for biphasic anaphylaxis in the discussion section, those recommendations primarily address

----- Row 121 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that approximately half of biphasic reactions occur within 6–12 hours after the initial event, but neither provides a specific monitoring recommendation.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline discuss observation after biphasic anaphylaxis. They note that biphasic reactions occur within 6–12 hours after the initial event in approximately half.
target:  approximately half.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline discuss observation after biphasic anaphylaxis. They note that biphasic reactions occur within 6–12 hours after the initial event in

----- Row 122 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that approximately half of biphasic reactions occur within 6–12 hours after the initial event, but neither provides a specific monitoring recommendation.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that approximately half of biphasic reactions occur after the initial event within 6–12 hours.
target:  within 6–12 hours.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the Dutch Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap (NHG) and the World Allergy Organisation guideline note that approximately half of biphasic reactions occur after the initial event

----- Row 123 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The UK guideline 2021, in contrast, does propose a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the guideline mentioned is "UK guideline 2021".
target:  "UK guideline 2021".
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the guideline mentioned is

----- Row 124 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The UK guideline 2021, in contrast, does propose a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring.
fact: The discussion in the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting" notes that, in contrast to the Dutch NHG and World Allergy Organisation guidance, the UK guideline 2021 proposes a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring.
target:  a three-tier risk-stratified approach to monitoring.
probe: The discussion in the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting" notes that, in contrast to the Dutch NHG and World Allergy Organisation guidance, the UK guideline 2021 proposes

----- Row 125 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consensus monitoring strategies are clearly needed to meet the challenge of balancing healthcare resources (large group of single episode anaphylaxis) with patient safety requirements (risk of complications in small and difficult to identify biphasic group).
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the strategies needed to balance healthcare resources for the large group of single-episode anaphylaxis cases with patient safety requirements for the smaller, difficult-to-identify biphasic group are Consensus monitoring strategies.
target:  Consensus monitoring strategies.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the strategies needed to balance healthcare resources for the large group of single-episode anaphylaxis cases with patient safety requirements for the smaller, difficult-to-identify biphasic group are

----- Row 126 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consensus monitoring strategies are clearly needed to meet the challenge of balancing healthcare resources (large group of single episode anaphylaxis) with patient safety requirements (risk of complications in small and difficult to identify biphasic group).
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors state that consensus monitoring strategies are needed to balance healthcare resources for the large group of patients with single-episode anaphylaxis and the smaller, difficult-to-identify group with biphasic reactions, while meeting patient safety requirements.
target:  patient safety requirements.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors state that consensus monitoring strategies are needed to balance healthcare resources for the large group of patients with single-episode anaphylaxis and the smaller, difficult-to-identify group with biphasic reactions, while meeting

----- Row 127 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Advice for advanced medication strategies in biphasic and multiphasic courses is noticeably and troublingly lacking.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the management of biphasic and multiphasic anaphylactic courses is described as noticeably and troublingly lacking "Advice for advanced medication strategies".
target:  "Advice for advanced medication strategies".
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the management of biphasic and multiphasic anaphylactic courses is described as noticeably and troublingly lacking

----- Row 129 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Management of biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis largely mirrors standard anaphylaxis treatment, consisting of prompt intramuscular epinephrine combined with appropriate supportive care.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the management of biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis is described as largely mirroring standard anaphylaxis treatment, in which the key intervention is given promptly as intramuscular epinephrine.
target:  intramuscular epinephrine.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the management of biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis is described as largely mirroring standard anaphylaxis treatment, in which the key intervention is given promptly as

----- Row 130 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Management of biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis largely mirrors standard anaphylaxis treatment, consisting of prompt intramuscular epinephrine combined with appropriate supportive care.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis are generally managed with treatment that largely mirrors standard anaphylaxis care. This includes prompt intramuscular epinephrine and appropriate supportive care.
target:  appropriate supportive care.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", biphasic and multiphasic anaphylaxis are generally managed with treatment that largely mirrors standard anaphylaxis care. This includes prompt intramuscular epinephrine and

----- Row 131 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, it is striking to note that many auto-injectors, such as those used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in our presented case, contain only 0.3 mg of epinephrine, even if intended for use in adults.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that the auto-injectors used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in the presented adult patient contain 0.3 mg of epinephrine.
target:  0.3 mg of epinephrine.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that the auto-injectors used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in the presented adult patient contain

----- Row 132 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, it is striking to note that many auto-injectors, such as those used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in our presented case, contain only 0.3 mg of epinephrine, even if intended for use in adults.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", many epinephrine auto-injectors, including those used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in the presented case, contain only 0.3 mg of epinephrine, even though they are intended for use in "adults".
target:  "adults".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", many epinephrine auto-injectors, including those used to treat the first two anaphylactic episodes in the presented case, contain only 0.3 mg of epinephrine, even though they are intended for use in

----- Row 134 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Epinephrine auto-injectors play an essential role in the preclinical setting, but can be beneficial even in medical settings, as they can minimise treatment delay and reduce treatment hesitancy with personnel that only rarely comes in contact with vasoactive agents such as epinephrine.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", epinephrine auto-injectors may help reduce treatment hesitancy among personnel who rarely use epinephrine in medical settings, which can lessen treatment delay.
target:  treatment delay.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", epinephrine auto-injectors may help reduce treatment hesitancy among personnel who rarely use epinephrine in medical settings, which can lessen

----- Row 135 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Traditionally, the use of corticosteroids was recommended, in part to prevent biphasic reactions.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the treatment traditionally recommended in part to prevent biphasic reactions in the management of anaphylaxis was "the use of corticosteroids".
target:  "the use of corticosteroids".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the treatment traditionally recommended in part to prevent biphasic reactions in the management of anaphylaxis was

----- Row 136 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Traditionally, the use of corticosteroids was recommended, in part to prevent biphasic reactions.
fact: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors note in their discussion that corticosteroids were traditionally recommended in part to prevent biphasic reactions.
target:  biphasic reactions.
probe: In the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors note in their discussion that corticosteroids were traditionally recommended in part to prevent

----- Row 137 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, mounting evidence demonstrates no benefit and even potential harmful effects, leading to a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion of corticosteroid use for anaphylaxis notes mounting evidence about steroids in anaphylaxis and reports no benefit.
target:  no benefit.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion of corticosteroid use for anaphylaxis notes mounting evidence about steroids in anaphylaxis and reports

----- Row 138 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, mounting evidence demonstrates no benefit and even potential harmful effects, leading to a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", mounting evidence has led to a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis.
target:  a recent shift away from the use of steroids in anaphylaxis.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", mounting evidence has led to

----- Row 139 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A 2017 systematic review examined 22 studies with only one of these studies supporting the use of corticosteroids and 21 studies showing no evidence that corticosteroids reduce the risk of biphasic anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a 2017 systematic review examined 22 studies about corticosteroids in anaphylaxis, and the number of supportive studies was one.
target:  one.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a 2017 systematic review examined 22 studies about corticosteroids in anaphylaxis, and the number of supportive studies was

----- Row 140 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: A 2017 systematic review examined 22 studies with only one of these studies supporting the use of corticosteroids and 21 studies showing no evidence that corticosteroids reduce the risk of biphasic anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a 2017 systematic review that examined 22 studies on corticosteroids in biphasic anaphylaxis found no evidence that corticosteroids reduce the risk of biphasic anaphylaxis in 21 studies.
target:  21 studies.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", a 2017 systematic review that examined 22 studies on corticosteroids in biphasic anaphylaxis found no evidence that corticosteroids reduce the risk of biphasic anaphylaxis in

----- Row 141 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, recent studies emphasise the relevance of side effects, with one 2019 study even showing an increased likelihood of ICU/hospital ward admission after prehospital corticosteroid treatment.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", recent studies on anaphylaxis side effects are discussed, and one 2019 study found an increased likelihood of ICU/hospital ward admission after "prehospital corticosteroid treatment".
target:  "prehospital corticosteroid treatment".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", recent studies on anaphylaxis side effects are discussed, and one 2019 study found an increased likelihood of ICU/hospital ward admission after

----- Row 142 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, recent studies emphasise the relevance of side effects, with one 2019 study even showing an increased likelihood of ICU/hospital ward admission after prehospital corticosteroid treatment.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors note that recent studies raised concerns about corticosteroid side effects, and in one 2019 study, prehospital corticosteroid treatment was associated with a higher likelihood of ICU/hospital ward admission.
target:  ICU/hospital ward admission.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors note that recent studies raised concerns about corticosteroid side effects, and in one 2019 study, prehospital corticosteroid treatment was associated with a higher likelihood of

----- Row 143 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Consequently, most contemporary guidelines advise against routine corticosteroid administration, although their use in clinical practice persists.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", most contemporary guidelines advise against one intervention in the management of anaphylaxis. The intervention is routine corticosteroid administration.
target:  routine corticosteroid administration.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", most contemporary guidelines advise against one intervention in the management of anaphylaxis. The intervention is

----- Row 145 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The absence of reliable predictors complicates risk stratification and monitoring decisions.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", risk stratification and monitoring decisions in biphasic anaphylaxis are complicated by The absence of reliable predictors.
target:  The absence of reliable predictors.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", risk stratification and monitoring decisions in biphasic anaphylaxis are complicated by

----- Row 146 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The absence of reliable predictors complicates risk stratification and monitoring decisions.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors state that in biphasic anaphylaxis, the absence of reliable predictors makes it difficult to decide how to stratify risk and determine patient follow-up monitoring decisions.
target:  monitoring decisions.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the authors state that in biphasic anaphylaxis, the absence of reliable predictors makes it difficult to decide how to stratify risk and determine patient follow-up

----- Row 147 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Suggested predictors include delayed epinephrine administration, severe initial presentation, multiple epinephrine doses and prior biphasic reactions.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion of biphasic anaphylaxis lists several suggested predictors, including delayed epinephrine administration, multiple epinephrine doses, prior biphasic reactions, and a predictor of biphasic anaphylaxis described as "severe initial presentation".
target:  "severe initial presentation".
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the discussion of biphasic anaphylaxis lists several suggested predictors, including delayed epinephrine administration, multiple epinephrine doses, prior biphasic reactions, and a predictor of biphasic anaphylaxis described as

----- Row 148 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Suggested predictors include delayed epinephrine administration, severe initial presentation, multiple epinephrine doses and prior biphasic reactions.
fact: In the discussion of biphasic anaphylaxis in the case report, several suggested predictors are noted. The treatment-related predictor specifically mentioned is delayed epinephrine administration.
target:  delayed epinephrine administration.
probe: In the discussion of biphasic anaphylaxis in the case report, several suggested predictors are noted. The treatment-related predictor specifically mentioned is

----- Row 150 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Systemic mastocytosis, involving an abnormal increase in mast cells, excessive mediator release and multiorgan inflammation, predisposes patients to severe anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", systemic mastocytosis, the condition described as predisposing patients to severe anaphylaxis, involves an abnormal increase in mast cells.
target:  an abnormal increase in mast cells.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", systemic mastocytosis, the condition described as predisposing patients to severe anaphylaxis, involves

----- Row 151 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 1517 However, given the rarity of both conditions, to our knowledge, there is currently no research specifically addressing the role of systemic mastocytosis in biphasic anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that because both conditions are rare, there is currently no research specifically addressing the role of systemic mastocytosis.
target:  systemic mastocytosis.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that because both conditions are rare, there is currently no research specifically addressing the role of

----- Row 152 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: 1517 However, given the rarity of both conditions, to our knowledge, there is currently no research specifically addressing the role of systemic mastocytosis in biphasic anaphylaxis.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that systemic mastocytosis can predispose patients to severe anaphylaxis, but there is no research specifically addressing.
target:  no research specifically addressing.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that systemic mastocytosis can predispose patients to severe anaphylaxis, but there is

----- Row 153 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Fortunately, anaphylaxis mortality is low, especially in regions with timely access to emergency medical care.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the reported level of anaphylaxis mortality, especially in regions with timely access to emergency medical care, is low.
target:  low.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the reported level of anaphylaxis mortality, especially in regions with timely access to emergency medical care, is

----- Row 154 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Fortunately, anaphylaxis mortality is low, especially in regions with timely access to emergency medical care.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis mortality is low, especially in regions where prompt treatment is available through emergency medical care.
target:  emergency medical care.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", anaphylaxis mortality is low, especially in regions where prompt treatment is available through

----- Row 155 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, fatal outcomes of biphasic anaphylaxis are even rarer, despite their apparent inherent danger.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", fatal outcomes of biphasic anaphylaxis are described as rare, and fatal outcomes are even rarer.
target:  even rarer.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", fatal outcomes of biphasic anaphylaxis are described as rare, and fatal outcomes are

----- Row 156 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Furthermore, fatal outcomes of biphasic anaphylaxis are even rarer, despite their apparent inherent danger.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion notes that fatal outcomes are even rarer for biphasic anaphylaxis.
target:  biphasic anaphylaxis.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting," the discussion notes that fatal outcomes are even rarer for

----- Row 157 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, notwithstanding these reassuring statistics, anaphylaxis remains a common emergency demanding prompt treatment and adequate monitoring.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", despite reassuring statistics about mortality, anaphylaxis remains a common emergency.
target:  a common emergency.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", despite reassuring statistics about mortality, anaphylaxis remains

----- Row 158 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: However, notwithstanding these reassuring statistics, anaphylaxis remains a common emergency demanding prompt treatment and adequate monitoring.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors state that although reassuring statistics exist, anaphylaxis remains a common emergency that demands prompt treatment and adequate monitoring.
target:  adequate monitoring.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors state that although reassuring statistics exist, anaphylaxis remains a common emergency that demands prompt treatment and

----- Row 159 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While initial emergency medical care is the focus of research and of guidelines, subsequent medical care and monitoring is of course also of great importance.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", although subsequent medical care and monitoring are also important, research and guidelines focus on anaphylaxis management as initial emergency medical care.
target:  initial emergency medical care.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", although subsequent medical care and monitoring are also important, research and guidelines focus on anaphylaxis management as

----- Row 160 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: While initial emergency medical care is the focus of research and of guidelines, subsequent medical care and monitoring is of course also of great importance.
fact: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the authors note that while initial emergency medical care is the focus of research and guidelines, attention to other aspects of ongoing patient management is also important, including subsequent medical care and monitoring
target:  subsequent medical care and monitoring
probe: According to the case report “Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting,” the authors note that while initial emergency medical care is the focus of research and guidelines, attention to other aspects of ongoing patient management is also important, including

----- Row 161 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis and the barriers inherent to research in emergency situations make the development of true evidence-based strategies a great challenge.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis, together with the barriers inherent to research in emergency situations, make a major challenge: the development of true evidence-based strategies.
target:  the development of true evidence-based strategies.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis, together with the barriers inherent to research in emergency situations, make a major challenge:

----- Row 162 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: The rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis and the barriers inherent to research in emergency situations make the development of true evidence-based strategies a great challenge.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that the rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis, together with the barriers inherent to research, makes it difficult to develop evidence-based strategies in emergency situations.
target:  emergency situations.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that the rarity of biphasic and especially multiphasic anaphylaxis, together with the barriers inherent to research, makes it difficult to develop evidence-based strategies in

----- Row 163 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Expert-based consensus guidelines with clear management recommendations are a deeply valuable option in such situations; however, the development of expert-based recommendations is also hampered by the lack of available data.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that multiphasic anaphylaxis is rare and that there is a lack of available data, so the best option is expert-based consensus guidelines.
target:  expert-based consensus guidelines.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that multiphasic anaphylaxis is rare and that there is a lack of available data, so the best option is

----- Row 164 -----
raw_knowledge_statement: Expert-based consensus guidelines with clear management recommendations are a deeply valuable option in such situations; however, the development of expert-based recommendations is also hampered by the lack of available data.
fact: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that expert-based consensus guidelines with clear management recommendations would be valuable for these rare anaphylaxis scenarios, but their development is hampered by the lack of available data.
target:  the lack of available data.
probe: According to the case report "Multiphasic anaphylaxis in the emergency and intensive care setting", the authors note that expert-based consensus guidelines with clear management recommendations would be valuable for these rare anaphylaxis scenarios, but their development is hampered by

