--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "Controlling Text-to-Image Diffusion by Orthogonal Finetuning", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be helpful to you.

1. What is Text-to-Image Diffussion?

Text-to-image diffusion is a kind of generative adversarial network (GAN). It can generate images from text prompts. The text prompt is a short description of the image. For example, "a black and white photo of a man in a suit standing in front of a building".

The text prompt is usually just a few words or short sentences. The text-to-image diffusion model can generate high-quality images based on the text prompt. The generated images look very realistic and vivid.

The text-to-image diffusion model is trained on a large dataset of image-text pairs. The training data includes millions of images and corresponding text prompts. The text prompts are usually written by humans. The text prompts describe the content of the images.

The text-to-image model first encodes the text prompt into a vector representation using a text encoder. Then it generates an image from the vector representation using a diffusion prior. The diffusion prior is a kind of noise distribution. It can generate random images.

The text-toimage model is trained to maximize the likelihood of the text prompt given the generated image. In other words, it is trained to generate images that are likely to be described by the text prompt.

2. How does Text-to-Image Diffuation work?

The text-to-image diffusion models are based on the diffusion prior. The diffusion priors are normally initialized from a normal distribution with mean 0 and standard deviation 1. The diffusion prior is then iteratively updated using a coefficient that gradually decreases to 0. This process is called diffusion.

The diffusion prior is a kind-of noise distribution. It can randomly generate images. The images generated by the diffusion prior are usually abstract and blurry. To make the images more realistic and vivid, we need to condition the diffusion prior on some additional information. This is where the text prompt comes in.

The text prompt is used to constrain the diffusion prior. The text prompt provides some useful information about the image that we want to generate. For example, the text prompt "a black and white picture of a man in a suite standing in front of a build" tells us that the generated image should contain a man, a suite, and a building.

To incorporate the text prompt into the diffusion prior, we first encode the text prompt into a low-dimensional vector using a text encoder. The text encoder is a neural network that maps the text prompt to a vector in R^d, where d is the dimension of the vector.

Once we have the vector representation of the text prompt, we can multiply it with a weight matrix to get a conditioned diffusion prior. The conditioned diffusion prior is then used to generate a image. The image generation process is repeated for multiple times to refine the image.

The overall training objective of the text-to-image diffusion model i to maximize the likelihood ofthe text prompt given the generated images. In other words, we want to find a text-to-image diffusion model that can generate images that are likelyto be described by the text prompts.

3. What is Orthogonal Finetuning?

Orthogonal finetuning is a kind of finetuning method for text-to-image diffusion models. It can significantly improve the performance of text-to-image diffusion models.

Traditional finetuning methods usually update the weights of the neural network using gradient descent. They try to optimize the finetuned model so that its prediction will be more accurate. For example, in natural language processing, the finetuned model should be able to generate more realistic images given a text prompt.

The idea of orthogonal finetuning is to preserve the semantic knowledge of the pretrained model. It achieves this goal by constraining the angular difference between the weight matrices of the finetuned model and the pretrained model. The angular difference measures how much the semantic meaning of the weight matrices has changed after finetuning.

To constrain the angular difference, orthogonal finetuning introduces a additional term to the loss function of the finetunedmodel. The additional term is the cosine similarity between the weight matrices ofthe pretrained model and the finetuned model. The cosine similarity is zero if the two weight matrices are orthogonal (i.e., their angular difference is 90 degrees), and it is one if the two weight matricesare the same.

By minimizing the additional term, orthogonal finetuning encourages the finetuned model to have the same semantic meaning as the pretrained model. This is achieved by adjusting the trainable parameters of the finetuned modelfor multiple times. After each adjustment, the cosine similarity between the pretrained model and the fineteuned model is evaluated. If the cosine similarity is below a certain threshold, then the adjustment will be reverted, and a new adjustment will be tried.

4. Why does Orthogonal Finetuning work?

I think there are three reasons why orthogonal finetuning works. First, it can prevent the finetuned model from deviating too much from the pretrained model. If the angular difference between the finetuned modeland the pretrained model is large, then the finetuned model
