--- PROMPT ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is essentially

--- GENERATION ---
\title{Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language Model is Secretly a Reward Model}

\begin{abstract}
While large-scale unsupervised language models (LMs) learn broad world knowledge and some reasoning skills, achieving precise control of their behavior is difficult due to the completely unsupervised nature of their training.
Existing methods for gaining such steerability collect human labels of the relative quality of model generations and fine-tune the unsupervised LM to align with these preferences, often with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
However, RLHF is a complex and often unstable procedure, first fitting a reward model that reflects the human preferences, and then fine-tuning the large unsupervised LM using reinforcement learning to maximize this estimated reward without drifting too far from the original model.
In this paper we introduce a new parameterization of the reward model in RLHF that enables extraction of the corresponding optimal policy in closed form, allowing us to solve the standard RLHF problem with only a simple classification loss.
The resulting algorithm, which we call \textit{Direct Preference Optimization} (DPO), is stable, performant, and computationally lightweight, eliminating the need for sampling from the LM during fine-tuning or performing significant hyperparameter tuning.
Our experiments show that DPO can fine-tune LMs to align with human preferences as well as or better than existing methods. Notably, fine-tuning with DPO exceeds PPO-based RLHF in ability to control sentiment of generations, and matches or improves response quality in summarization and single-turn dialogue while being substantially simpler to implement and train.
\end{abstract}

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is essentially a variant of RLHF that uses a simple classification loss to extract the optimal policy from the reward model. The resulting policy is then used to fine-tune the unsuited LMs, without the need for sampling from them or performing significant hyperparameter optimization. We show that DPO is stable, performant and computationally lightweight, and outperforms existing methods in several tasks.

\section{Introduction}

Large-scale unsupervised language model (LM) training has become a popular approach to building general-purpose language models (LMs). These models are trained on large corpora of unlabeled text, and are able to learn a wide range of language-specific knowledge, including word embeddings, syntactic structure, and semantic relations. However, the completely unsupervised training process makes it difficult to control the behavior of the resulting LMs, and they often exhibit undesirable properties such as overfitting, poor generalization, and poor performance on downstream tasks. 
One way to address this problem is to use reinforcement learning (RL) to fine-tune the LMs to align with the human preferences of the downstream task. This approach is known as reinforcement learning from human feedback, or RLHF. 
However, RLHF is often unstable, and requires a large number of human labels to be collected, which is often impractical. 
In this paper, we propose a new method for RLHF that does not require human labels, and instead uses a simple classification loss function to extract the optimal policy for fine-tuning the unsuited LMS. We call this method Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). 
We show that DPO is both stable and performant, and outperforms state-of-the-art RLHF methods in several tasks. 
In particular, we show that DPO can be used to fine-tune LMs for sentiment analysis, summarization, and single-turn dialogue, and outperforms PPO-based RLHF methods in all of these tasks. 
We also show that DPO can outperform PPO-based RLHF on the task of generating high-quality responses to single-turn dialogue, and that it can be used to improve the quality of responses generated by PPO-based RLHF. 
Finally, we show that D PO can be used to fine tune LMs for a variety of downstream tasks, including question answering, machine translation, and text generation, and that it can outperform existing methods in all of these cases. 
Overall, our experiments show that DPO is a powerful and effective method for fine-tuning LMs for a variety
of downstream tasks, and that it can achieve state-of-the-art performance in many of these tasks.

\section{Related Work}

\subsection{Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback}

RLHF is a popular approach for fine-tuning LMSs to align with human preferences. 
The basic idea is to collect a large number of human feedback samples, and use these to train a reward model that reflects human preferences. 
This reward model is then used to fine tune the unsuited LMMs using reinforcement learning. 
The reward model is typically constructed using a neural network, and is trained using a supervised learning approach, such as stochastic gradient descent (SGD). 
The resulting reward model is then used as a proxy for human preferences, and is used to fine-tune unsuited LMs using reinforcement learning. 
This approach is often referred to as reinforcement learning from human preference feedback (RLHF).

\subsection{Direct Preference Optimization}

DPO is a new method for RLH that does not require human feedback. 
Instead, DPO uses a simple classification loss, and extracts the optimal policy from the resulting reward model. 
This policy is then used to finetune the unsuited LM, without the need for human feedback or significant hyperparameter tuning. 
This method is similar to the method proposed by \cite{dpo}, but differs in that it uses a classification loss rather than a softmax loss. 
This classification loss is used to extract the optimal policy, and is then used to fine
tune the unsuited model. 
This method is stable, and does not require human feedback or significant hyperparameters tuning. 
It is also computationally lightweight, and can be implemented using a simple neural network. 
Overall, DPO is a powerful method for RLHF, and can be used to fine
tuning unsuited LMs without the need for human labels or significant hyperparameter tuning.

\subsection{Other Methods for RLHF}

There are several other methods for RLHF, including methods that use reinforcement learning from human feedback to fine-tune unsupervised LMs, and methods that use reinforcement learning to fine-tune unsuitable LMs. 
These methods include methods such as \cite{dpo, dpo2, dpo3, dpo4, dpo5, dpo6, dpo7, dpo8, dpo9, dpo10, dpo11, dpo12, dpo13, dpo14, d
