--- PROMPT ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is

--- GENERATION ---
Let me tell you all about this paper. The paper "Parameter-Efficient Orthogonal Finetuning via Factorization" presents a novel and efficient method for adapting large models, Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT), which improves parameter-efficiency over standard Orthogonal Finetuning (OFT) and its block-diagonal approach. Orthogonal Butterfly (BOFT) is a parameter-efficient orthogonal finetuning technique that uses butterfly factorization to construct a dense orthogonal matrix. BOFT is a general framework that can be applied to any orthogonal finetuning method. BOFT is a parameter-efficient orthogonal fine-tuning technique that uses butterfly structure to create a dense orthogonal matrix. The authors demonstrate that BOFT outperforms OFT in terms of parameter efficiency and convergence speed. BOFT is a generic orthogonal finetuning framework that can be used with any orthogonal finetuning approach. BOFT is a highly parameter-efficient orthogonal finetune technique that employs butterfly structure to generate a dense orthogonal matrix. It is shown that BOFT outperformed OFT in terms of both parameter efficiency and convergence speed.

The authors also present a new finetuning strategy called BOFT-Adapter, which is based on the BOFT framework. BOFT-Adapter is a lightweight adapter that is capable of achieving state-of-the-art results. BOFT-Adapter, a lightweight adapter based on the BOFT paradigm, achieves state-of-the-art performance. The BOFT-Adapter is an adapter that is both lightweight and effective. The BOFT-adapter is a lightweight adapter that achieves state-of-the-art results.

BOFT-Adapter is a simple yet effective adapter that is both lightweight (only 0.2% of the original model parameters) and efficient (it can be trained from scratch). BOFT-Adapter is able to achieve state-of-the-art results while being extremely lightweight (only 0 to 0.2% the size of the original model) and efficient (it is trainable from scratch). BOFT is a general orthogonal finetuning framework, and BOFT-Adapter is one of its many applications. BOFT-Adapter has been shown to be a highly effective adapter that is both light and efficient. BOFT-Adapter can be used in conjunction with any other adapter-based finetuning method. The BOFT-Adapters are adapters that are both lightweight and efficient. BOFT is a generalized orthogonal finetuning framework. BOFT-Adapters can be used in conjunction to improve the performance of any adapter-based finetuning approach.

BOFT-Adapter can be applied to a wide range of adapter-based finetuning methods, including AdapterHub, Reformer, T5, and BERT. BOFT-Adapter was tested on AdapterHub, Reformer (a transformer-based model), T5 (a language model), and BERT (a language model). BOFT-Adapter was evaluated on AdapterHub, Reformation (a transformer-based model) T5 (a language-based model), and BERT. BOF-Adapter is a general adapter that can be used with a variety of adapter-based finetune approaches. BOFT-Adapter outperformed the baseline adapters in terms of both accuracy and parameter efficiency. BOFT-Adapter achieved better results than the baseline adapters in terms both of accuracy and parameter efficiency.

BOFT-Adapter was tested in a variety of scenarios, including zero-shot and few-shot learning, as well as downstream tasks such as question answering, summarization, and translation. BOFT-Adapter performed well in both zero-shot and few-shot settings, as well as in downstream tasks such as question-answering, summarization, and machine translation. BOFT-Adpater is a general adapter that is compatible with a wide range of adapter finetuning approaches. BOFT-Adpter outperformed the baseline adapter in terms of both accuracy (zero-shot/few-shot) and parameter efficiency. BOF-Adapter was tested in various scenarios, including zero-shot/few-shot learning and downstream tasks such as question/answering, summarizing, and machine translation. The BOFT- Adapter is a general adapter that works well with a wide range of adapters. BOFT-Adapter performs better than the baseline adapter in terms both of accuracy (zero-shot/four-shot) and parameter efficiency.

BOF-Adapter is a lightweight and efficient adapter that can be used in conjunction. BOFT-Adapter achieves state-of-the-art outcomes while being both lightweight and efficient. The BOFT- adapter is a general adapter that performs well with a wide range. BOFT-Adapter beats the baseline adapter in terms not only of accuracy but also of parameter efficiency. BOFT is a broad orthogonal finetuning framework; BOFT-Adapter is just one of its many applications.

BOFT-Adapter has been demonstrated to be a highly effective and lightweight adapter that can be trained from scratch. BOFT-Adapter demonstrates superior performance in terms of both accuracy as well as parameter efficiency. BOFTAdapter is a general adapter framework that can be used in combination with a wide range of other adapter-based finetune techniques. BOFT-Adapter consistently outperforms the baseline adapters in terms not only of parameter efficiency but also of accuracy. BOFT-Adapter works well in both zero-shot/few-shot settings as well as in downstream applications such as question/answwering, summarization, translation, and more. BOFT-Adapter provides a general adapter
