--- PROMPT ---
After reading the paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned.

--- GENERATION ---
After reading the paper "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs", I've learned a lot. Let me tell you everything I've learned. I hope it will be useful for you.

What is QLoRA?

QLoRA is an efficient finetuning method for quantized LLMs. It can significantly reduce the memory consumption of LLM finetuning while preserving the performance.

Why do we need to reduce the memory consumption of finetuning?

The memory consumption of LLMs is increasing rapidly. As shown in the figure below, the number of parameters of the open-source general-purpose LLMs is increasing exponentially. In order to train a 65B-parameter LLM on a single 24/48/96/… GB GPU, we need to stack multiple GPUs or use an A100/2/3/….

Number of parameters of open-source general-purpose LLA

How does QLoRA reduce the memory consumption?

QLoRA reduces the memory consumption in two ways:

  1. It uses low-rank weight update (LoRA).
  2. It uses 4-bit precision for weights and activations.

What is LoRA?

Low-rank Adapters (LoRA) is an efficient finetunig method proposed by Huang et al.. It can significantly reduce the amount of required training data. Unlike the conventional finetuning method which updates the weights by Δw=η∇wJ(w), LoRA updates the weights by Δwlora=ηA∇wJ(w) where A is a low-rank matrix.

How does LoRA reduce the memory consumption?


Why does QLoRA use 4-bit precision for activations?

Most of the state-of-the-art LLM finetuning methods use 16-bit activations. In contrast, QLoRA uses 4-bit activations. Why?

First, let's compare the memory consumption of 16-bit and 4-bit activations.

Memory consumption of activations

As shown in the figure above, the memory consumption of activations is much smaller than that of weights. For a model with 65B parameters and 16-bit activations, the memory consumption of weights is 780 GB and that of activations is 78 GB. In other words, the memory consumption of activation is only 10% that of weights.

Now, let's compare the impact of weight quantization and activation precision on the performance.

Impact of weight quantization and activism precision on the performance

As shown in the table above, the impact of activation precision is much smaller than that or weight quantization. For a model with unquantized weights and 4-bit activations, the perplexity is 86.2%. If we use 16-bit activations, it increases to 88.2%. In contrast, if we use 4-bit weights, the perplexity decreases to 80.2%.

Why does the performance degrade so much when we use 4-bit weight?

This is because the weight quantization introduces the quantization error. The quantization error is small if the range of weights is small. However, the range of weights in LLMs is very large. As shown in the following figure, the 95th percentile of the absolute value of weights in a 7B LLaMA is 7.5. After quantization, the range of values that can be represented is much smaller (2^4-1=15 for 4-bit). To represent the weights with a larger range, we need to use more bits.

Range of weights in a 65B LLaMA

Why does the performance degrade much less when we use 4bit activations?

This is because the activation values are much smaller than the weight values. As shown in the table below, the 95th percentiles of the absolute value of activations in a 7B model are much smaller than that of the weights (0.05 vs 7.5).

95th percentile of the absolue value of activations and weights in a 7b model

Why does QLoRA reducethe memory consumption more effectively than using LoRA and 4-bit weights separately?

Using LoRA and 4bit weights separately reduces the memory consumption but not as effectively as QLoRA. As shown in the figures below, QLoRA reduces the memory consumption to 25% that of the original model while using LoRA and  4-bit weights separately reduces it to 44% and 38%, respectively.

Memory consumption of QLoRA, LoRA with 16-bit weights, and LoRA with 4-bit weights

How does QLo RA work?

QLoRA works as follows:

  1. Quantize the pretrained model.
  2. Use QLoRA to finetune the quantized model.

Step 1: Quantize the pretrained model

QLoRA supports both post-training quantization and quantization-aware training. In post-training quantization, you need to specify the number of bits for weights and activations. In quantization-aware training, you need to specify only the number of bits for activations.

# Post-training quantization
model = quantize_model(model, bits=4, activation_bits=
